The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Luminous Face, by Carolyn Wells

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Luminous Face

Author: Carolyn Wells

Release Date: May 16, 2013 [EBook #42714]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LUMINOUS FACE ***




Produced by Roger Frank and Sue Clark








THE LUMINOUS FACE

by

CAROLYN WELLS

Author of

“The Come Back,” “In the Onyx Lobby,” “The Curved Blades” etc.

A. L. BURT COMPANY

Publishers :: New York

Published by arrangement with George H. Doran Company




COPYRIGHT, 1921,

BY GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




CONTENTS

  CHAPTER I—Doctor Fell
  CHAPTER II—The Telephone Call
  CHAPTER III—The Lindsays
  CHAPTER IV—Pollard’s Threat
  CHAPTER V—Mrs Mansfield’s Story
  CHAPTER VI—The Fur Collar
  CHAPTER VII—Barry’s Suspect
  CHAPTER VIII—Miss Adams’ Story
  CHAPTER IX—Ivy Hayes
  CHAPTER X—The Signed Letter
  CHAPTER XI—Miss Adams Again
  CHAPTER XII—Louis’ Confession
  CHAPTER XIII—Philip and Phyllis
  CHAPTER XIV—Hester’s Statement
  CHAPTER XV—Phyllis and Ivy
  CHAPTER XVI—Buddy
  CHAPTER XVII—Zizi
  CHAPTER XVIII—The Luminous Face




THE LUMINOUS FACE




CHAPTER I

DOCTOR FELL


“A bit thick, I call it,” Pollard looked round the group; “here’s
Mellen been dead six weeks now, and the mystery of his taking-off
still unsolved.”

“And always will be,” Doctor Davenport nodded. “Mighty few murders are
brought home to the villains who commit them.”

“Oh, I don’t know,” drawled Phil Barry, an artist, whose dress and
demeanor coincided with the popular idea of his class. “I’ve no head
for statistics,” he went on, idly drawing caricatures on the margin of
his evening paper as he talked, “but I think they say that only
one-tenth of one per cent, of the murderers in this great and glorious
country of ours are ever discovered.”

“Your head for statistics is defective, as you admit,” Doctor
Davenport said, his tone scornful; “but percentages mean little in
these matters. The greater part of the murders committed are not
brought prominently before public notice. It’s only when the victim is
rich or influential, or the circumstances of some especial interest
that a murder occupies the front pages of the newspapers.”

“Old Mellen’s been on those same front pages for several weeks—off
and on, that is,” Pollard insisted; “of course, he was a well-known
man and his exit was dramatic. But all the same, they ought to have
caught his murderer—or slayer, as the papers call him.”

“Him?” asked Barry, remembering the details of the case.

“Impersonal pronoun,” Pollard returned, “and probably a man anyway.
‘Cherchez la femme,’ is the trite advice, and always sounds well, but
really, a woman seldom has nerve enough for the fatal deed.”

“That’s right,” Davenport agreed. “I know lots of women who have all
the intent of murder in their hearts, but who never could pull it
off.”

“A good thing, too,” Barry observed. “I’d hate to think any woman I
know capable of murder! Ugh!” His long, delicate white hand waved away
the distasteful idea with a gesture that seemed to dismiss it
entirely.

There were not many in the Club lounge, the group of men had it mostly
to themselves, and as the afternoon dusk grew deeper and the lights
were turned on, several more went away, and finally Fred Lane rose to
go.

“Frightfully interesting, you fellows,” he said, “but it’s after five,
and I’ve a date. Anybody I can drop anywhere?”

“Me, please,” accepted Dean Monroe. “That is, if you’re going my way.
I want to go downtown.”

“Was going up,” returned Lane, “but delighted to change my route. Come
along, Monroe.”

But Monroe had heard a chance word from Doctor Davenport that arrested
his attention, and he sat still.

“Guess I won’t go quite yet—thanks all the same,” he nodded at Lane,
and lighted a fresh cigarette.

Dean Monroe was a younger man than the others, an artist, but not yet
in the class with Barry. His square, firm-set jaw, and his Wedgwood
blue eyes gave his face a look of power and determination quite in
contrast with Philip Barry’s pale, sensitive countenance. Yet the two
were friends—chums, almost, and though differing in their views on
art, each respected the other’s opinions.

“Have it your own way,” Lane returned, indifferently, and went off.

“Crime detection is not the simple process many suppose,” Davenport
was saying, and Monroe gave his whole attention. “So much depends on
chance.”

“Now, Doctor,” Monroe objected, “I hold it’s one of the most exact
sciences, and——”

Davenport looked at him, as an old dog might look at an impertinent
kitten.

“Being an exact science doesn’t interfere with dependence on chance,”
he growled; “also, young man, are you sure you know what an exact
science is?”

“Yeppy,” Monroe defended himself, as the others smiled a little.
“It’s—why, it’s a science that’s exact—isn’t it?”

His gay smile disarmed his opponent, and Davenport, mounted on his
hobby, went on: “You may have skill, intuition, deductive powers and
all that, but to discover a criminal, the prime element is chance.
Now, in the Mellen case, the chances were all against the detectives
from the first. They didn’t get there till the evidences were, or
might have been destroyed. They couldn’t find Mrs Gresham, the most
important witness until after she had had time to prepare her string
of falsehoods. Oh, well, you know how the case was messed up, and now,
there’s not a chance in a hundred of the truth ever being known.”

“Does chance play any part in your profession, Doctor?” asked Monroe,
with the expectation of flooring him.

“You bet it does!” was the reply. “Why, be I never so careful in my
diagnosis or treatment, a chance deviation from my orders on the part
of patient or attendant, a chance draught of wind, or upset
nerves—oh, Lord, yes! as the Good Book says, ‘Time and Chance
happeneth to us all.’ And no line of work is more precarious than
establishing a theory or running down a clew in a murder case. For the
criminal, ever on the alert, has all the odds on his side, and can
block or divert the detective’s course at will.”

Doctor Ely Davenport was, without being pompous, a man who was at all
times conscious of his own personality and sure of his own importance.
He was important, too, being one of the most highly thought of doctors
in New York City, and his self-esteem, if a trifle annoying, was
founded on his real worth.

He often said that his profession brought him in contact with the
souls of men and women quite as much as with their bodies, and he was
fond of theorizing what human nature might do or not do in crucial
moments.

The detection of crime he held to be a matter requiring the highest
intelligence and rarest skill.

“Detection!” he exclaimed, in the course of the present conversation,
“why detection is as hard to work out as the Fourth Dimension! As
difficult to understand as the Einstein theory.”

“Oh, come now, Doctor,” Pollard said, smiling, “that’s going a bit too
far. I admit, though, it requires a superior brain. But any real work
does. However, I say, first catch your motive.”

“That’s it,” broke in Monroe, eagerly. “It all depends on the motive!”

“The crime does,” Davenport assented, drily, “but not the detection.
You youngsters don’t know what you’re talking about—you’d better shut
up.”

“We know a lot,” returned Monroe, unabashed. “Youth is no barrier to
knowledge these days. And I hold that the clever detective seeks first
the motive. You can’t have a murder without a motive, any more than an
omelette without eggs.”

“True, oh, Solomon,” granted the doctor. “But the motive may be known
only to the murderer, and not to be discovered by any effort of the
investigator.”

“Then the murder mystery remains unsolved,” returned Monroe, promptly.

“Your saying so doesn’t make it so, you know,” drawled Phil Barry, in
his impertinent way. “Now, to me it would seem that a nice lot of
circumstantial evidence, and a few good clews would expedite matters
just as well as a knowledge of the villain’s motive.”

“Circumstantial evidence!” scoffed Monroe.

“Sure,” rejoined Barry; “Give me a smoking revolver with initials on
it, a dropped handkerchief, monogrammed, of course, half a broken
cuff-link, and a few fingerprints, and I care not who knows the
motive. And if you can add a piece—no, a fragment of tweed, clutched
in the victim’s rigid hand—why—I’ll not ask for wine!”

“What rubbish you all talk,” said Pollard, smiling superciliously;
“don’t you see these things all count? If you have motive you don’t
need evidence, and _vice versa_. That is, if both motive and
evidence are the real thing.”

“There are only three motives,” Monroe informed. “Love, hate and
money.”

“You’ve got all the jargon by heart, little one,” and Pollard grinned
at him. “Been reading some new Detective Fiction?”

“I’m always doing that,” Monroe stated, “but I hold that a detective
who can’t tell which of those three is the motive, isn’t worth his
salt.”

“Salt is one commodity that has remained fairly inexpensive,” said
Barry, speaking slowly, and with his eyes on his cigarette, from which
he was carefully amputating the ash, “and a detective who could truly
diagnose motive is not to be sneezed at. Besides, revenge is often a
reason.”

“That comes under the head of hate,” promptly responded Monroe. “The
three motives include all the gamut of human emotion, and some of
their ramifications will include every murder motive that ever
existed.”

“Fear?” quietly suggested Doctor Davenport.

“Part of hate,” said Monroe, but he was challenged by Pollard.

“Not necessarily. A man may fear a person whom he does not hate at
all. But there’s another motive, that doesn’t quite fit your
classification, Monroe.”

Before the inevitable question could be put another man joined the
group.

“Hello, folks,” said Robert Gleason, as he sat down; “hope I don’t
intrude—and all that. What you talking about?”

“Murder,” said Barry. “Murder as a Fine Art, you know.”

“Don’t like the subject. Let’s change it. Talk about the ladies, or
something pleasant, you know. Eh?”

“Or Shakespeare and the musical glasses,” said Pollard.

“No musical glasses, nowadays,” bewailed Gleason. “No more clink the
canakin, clink. It’s drink to me only with thine eyes. Hence, the
preponderance of women and song in our lives, since the third of the
trio is gone.”

Gleason was the sort of Westerner usually described as breezy. He was
on intimate terms with everybody, whether everybody reciprocated or
not. Not a large man, not a young man, he possessed a restless
vitality, a wiry energy that gave him an effect of youth. About forty,
he was nearer the age of Doctor Davenport than the others, who were
all in their earliest thirties.

Nobody liked Gleason much, yet no one really disliked him. He was a
bit forward, a little intrusive, but it was clear to be seen that
those mannerisms were due to ignorance and not to any intent to be
objectionable. He was put up at the Club by a friend, and had never
really overstepped his privileges, though it was observable that his
ways were not club ways.

“Yep, the Ladies—God bless ’em!” he went on. “What could be a better
subject for gentlemen’s discussion? No personalities, of course; that
goes without saying.”

“Then why say it?” murmured Pollard, without looking at the speaker.

“That’s so! Why, indeed?” was the genial response. “Now, you know, out
in Seattle, where I hail from, there’s more—oh, what do you call it,
sociability like, among men. I go into a club there and everybody
sings out something gay; I come in here, and you all shut up like
clams.”

“You objected to the subject we were discussing,” began Monroe,
indignantly, but Barry interrupted, with a wave of his hand, “The
effete East, my dear Gleason. Doubtless you’ve heard that expression?
Yes, you would. Well, it’s our renowned effeteness that prevents our
falling on your neck more effusively.”

“Guying me?” asked Gleason, with a quiet smile. “You see, boys, before
I went to Seattle, I was born in New England. I can take a little
chaff.”

“You’re going to tell us of your ancestry?” said Pollard, and though
his words were polite his tone held a trace of sarcastic intent.

Gleason turned a sudden look on him.

“I might, if you really want me to,” he said, slowly. “I might give
you the story of my life from my infancy, spent in Coggs’ Hollow, New
Hampshire, to the present day, when I may call myself one of the
leading citizens of Seattle, Wash.”

“What or whom do you lead?” asked Pollard, and again the only trace of
unpleasantness was a slight inflection in his really fine voice.

“I lead the procession,” and Gleason smiled, as one who positively
refuses to take offense whether meant or not. “But, I can tell you I
don’t lead it here in New York! Your pace is rather swift for me! I’m
having a good time and all that, but soon, it’s me for the wildness
and woolliness of the good old West again! Why, looky here, I’m living
in a hole in the wall—yes, sir, a hole in the wall!”

“I like that!” laughed Doctor Davenport. “Why, man, you’re in that
apartment of McIlvaine’s—one of the best put-ups in town.”

“Yes, so Mac said,” Gleason exploded. “Why, out home, we’d call that a
coop. But what could I do? This old town of yours, spilling over full,
couldn’t fix me out at any hotel, so when my friend offered his
palatial home, I took it—and——”

“You’d be surprised at the result!” Barry broke in. “That’s because
you’re a Western millionaire, Mr Gleason. Now we poor, struggling
young artists think that apartment you’re in, one of the finest
diggings around Washington Square.”

“But, man, there’s no service!” Gleason went on, complainingly. “Not
even a hall porter! Nobody to announce a caller!”

“Well, you have that more efficient service, the——”

“Yes! the contraption that lets a caller push a button and have the
door open in his face!”

“Isn’t that just what he wants?” said Barry, laughing outright at
Gleason’s disgusted look. “Then, you see, Friend Caller walks
upstairs, and there you are!”

“Yes, _walks_ upstairs. Not even an elevator!”

“But your friends don’t need one,” expostulated Davenport. “You’re
only one flight up. You don’t seem to realize how lucky you are to get
that place, in these days of housing problems!”

“Oh, well, ’tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door,
but it will serve,” said Gleason, with one of his sudden, pleasant
smiles.

“I see your point, though, Mr Gleason,” said Dean Monroe. “And if I
were a plutocrat from Seattle, sojourning in this busy mart, I confess
I, too, should like a little more of the dazzling light in my halls
than you get down there. I know the place, used to go there to see
McIlvaine. And while it’s a decent size, and jolly well furnished, I
can see how you’d prefer more gilt on your ginger bread.”

“I do, and I’d have it, too, if I were staying here much longer. But
I’m going to settle up things soon now, and go back to home, sweet
home.”

“How did you, a New Englander, chance to make Seattle your home?”
asked Monroe, always of a curious bent.

“Had a chance to go out there and get rich. You see, Coggs’ Hollow, as
one might gather from its name, was a small hamlet. I lived there till
I was twenty-five, then, getting a chance to go West and blow up with
the country, I did. Glad of it, too. Now, I’m going back there, and—I
hope to take with me a specimen of your fair feminine. Yes, sir, I
hope and expect to take along, under my wing, one of these little
moppy-haired, brief-skirted lassies, that will grace my Seattle home
something fine!”

“Does she know it yet?” drawled Barry and Gleason stared at him.

“She isn’t quite sure of it, but I am!” he returned with a comical air
of determination.

“You know her pretty well, then,” chaffed Barry.

“You bet I do! I ought to. She’s my sister’s stepdaughter.”

“Phyllis Lindsay!” cried Barry, involuntarily speaking the name.

“The same,” said Gleason, smiling; “and as I’m due there for dinner,
I’ll be toddling now to make myself fine for the event.”

With a general beaming smile of good nature that included all the
group, Gleason went away.

For a few moments no one spoke, and then Monroe began, “As I was
saying, there are only three motives for murder—and I stick to that.
But you were about to say, Pollard——?”

“I was about to say that you have omitted the most frequent and most
impelling motive. It doesn’t always result in the fatal stroke, but as
a motive, it can’t be beat.”

“Go on—what is it?”

“Just plain dislike.”

“Oh, hate,” said Monroe.

“Not at all. Hate implies a reason, a grievance. But I mean an
ineradicable, and unreasonable dislike—why, simply a case of:

    ‘I do not like you, Doctor Fell,
    The reason why I cannot tell;
    But this I know and know full well,
    I do not like you, Doctor Fell.’

One Tom Brown wrote that, and it’s a bit of truth, all right!”

“One Martial said it before your friend Brown,” informed Doctor
Davenport. “He wrote:

    ‘Non amo, te, Sabidi,
    nec possum dicere quore;
    Hoc tantum possum dicere,
    non amo te.’

Which is, being translated for the benefit of you unlettered ones, ‘I
do not love thee, Sabidius, nor can I say why; this only can I say, I
do not love thee.’ There’s a French version, also.”

“Never mind, Doc,” Pollard interrupted, “we don’t want your erudition,
but your opinion. You say you know psychology as well as physiology;
will you agree that a strong motive for murder might be just that
unreasonable dislike—that distaste of seeing a certain person
around?”

“No, not a strong motive,” said Davenport, after a short pause for
thought. “A slight motive, perhaps, by which I mean a fleeting
impulse.”

“No,” persisted Pollard, “an impelling—a compelling motive. Why,
there’s Gleason now. I can’t bear that man. Yet I scarcely know him.
I’ve met him but a few times—had little or no personal conversation
with him—yet I dislike him. Not detest or hate or despise—merely
dislike him. And, some day I’m going to kill him.”

“Going to kill all the folks you dislike?” asked Barry, indifferently.

“Maybe. If I dislike them enough. But that Gleason offends my taste. I
can’t stand him about. So, as I say, I’m going to kill him. And I hold
that the impulse that drives me to the deed is the strongest murder
motive a man can have.”

“Don’t talk rubbish, Manning,” and young Monroe gave him a frightened
glance, as if he thought Pollard in earnest.

“It isn’t altogether rubbish,” said Doctor Davenport, as he rose to
go, “there’s a grain of truth in Pollard’s contention. A rooted
dislike of another is a bad thing to have in your system. Have it cut
out, Pollard.”

“You didn’t mean it, did you, Manning?”

Monroe spoke diffidently, almost shyly, with a scared glance at
Pollard.

The latter turned and looked at him with a smile. Then, glaring
ferociously, he growled, “Of course I did! And if you get yourself
disliked, I’ll kill you, too! _Booh!_”

They all laughed at Monroe’s frightened jump, as Pollard Booh’d into
his face, and Doctor Davenport said, “Look out, Pollard, don’t scare
our young friend into fits! And, remember, Monroe, ‘Threatened men live
long?’ I’ve my car—anybody want a lift anywhere?”

“Take me, will you?” said Dean Monroe, and willingly enough, Doctor
Davenport carried the younger man off in his car.

“You oughtn’t to do it, Pol, you know,” Barry gently remonstrated.
“Poor little Monroe thinks you’re a gory villain, and he’ll mull over
your fool remarks till he’s crazy—more crazy than he is already.”

“Let him,” said Pollard, smiling indifferently. “I only spoke the
truth—as to that motive, I mean. Don’t you want to kill that Gleason
every time you see him?”

“You make him seem like a cat—with nine or more lives! How _can_
you kill a man every time you see him? It isn’t done!”

The two men left the Club together, and walked briskly down Fifth
Avenue.

“Going to the Lindsays’ to-night, of course?” asked Barry, as they
reached Forty-fifth Street, where he turned off.

“Yes. You?”

“Yes. See you later, then. You gather that Gleason has annexed the
pretty Phyllis?”

“Looks like it, doesn’t it? I suppose the announcement will be made
to-night at the dinner or the dance.”

“Suppose so. How I hate to see it that way. I’m in love with that
little beauty myself.”

“Who isn’t?” returned Pollard, smiling, and then Barry turned off in
his own street, and Pollard went on down toward his home, a small
hotel on West Fortieth.

Held up for a few moments by the great tide of traffic at Forty-second
Street, he glanced at his wrist watch and found it was ten minutes
after six. And then, a taxicab passed him, and in it he saw Phyllis
Lindsay. She did not see him, however, so, the traffic signal being
given, he went on his way.




CHAPTER II

The Telephone Call


Every hour of every twenty-four is filled with amazing occurrences and
startling episodes. Astonishing incidents and even more startling
coincidences are happening every minute of every sixty minutes, but
the fact that those most interested are unaware of these deeds is what
makes the great cases of mystery.

Only an omniscient eye that could see all the activities of the few
hours following the events just related could pierce the veil of doubt
and uncertainty that overhung the ensuing tragedy.

The first human being to receive news of it was Miss Hester Jordan.

This capable and efficient young woman was the office nurse of Doctor
Davenport, and her position was no sinecure.

Of a highly nervous temperament, she yet managed to preserve the
proper calm and poise that nurses should always show, except when, at
the end of a long, hard day, she became mentally and physically
exhausted.

Though supposed to be off duty at six o’clock, her relief was
frequently late in arriving and in this instance had not yet put in an
appearance, though it was half past the hour.

Wearily, Miss Jordan answered telephone calls, striving to keep her
tired voice pleasant and amiable.

“No,” she would answer the anxious speakers, “Doctor Davenport is not
in.” “Yes, I expect him soon.” “Can you leave a message?” “Yes, I will
tell him.” “He will surely be in by seven.” “No, he left no message
for you.” “No, I don’t know exactly where he is.” “Yes, I will let you
know.”

Replies of this sort, over and over, strained her nerves to their
furthest tension, and when at six-forty the telephone bell jangled
again she took the receiver from its hook with what was almost a jerk.

“Hello,” she said, unable to keep utter exasperation out of her voice.

But instead of a summons from some impatient patient, she heard a
faint voice say, “Come, Doctor—oh, come quick—I’m—I’m done
for—shot——”

There were more incoherent words, but Nurse Jordan couldn’t catch
them.

“Who are you?” she cried, alert now. “Who is speaking?”

“Gleason,” came back the faint voice. “Wash’—t’n Square—come—can’t
you come quick——”

She could get no more. The voice ceased, and only blank silence met
her frantic queries.

She hung up her receiver, and a sudden realization of the situation
came to her. She seemed to see the scene—somebody shot—somebody
telephoning that he was shot—somebody’s voice getting weaker and
ceasing to sound at all—the picture was too much for her tired brain,
and she buried her face in her hands and sobbed hysterically from
sheer nervous excitement.

Only for a moment did she give way. Nurse Jordan’s training and
personality was not to be conquered by a sudden shock of any sort.

Pulling herself together, she set to work to find the doctor.

This meant telephoning to two or three places where she knew there was
a chance of locating him.

And at the third call she found him at Mrs Ballard’s, and, though
still shaken and quivering, she controlled her voice and told him
distinctly of the tragic telephone call she had taken.

“Gleason!” cried the Doctor, “Washington Square? What number?”

But Nurse Jordan didn’t know, and Doctor Davenport had to call up
somebody to inquire.

He tried Mrs Lindsay, who was Gleason’s sister, but her wire was busy
and after an impatient moment, Davenport called Pollard, at his hotel.

“Here,” he cried, handing the receiver to a staring butler, “take this
and when the gentleman answers, ask him the address of Robert Gleason.
Tell him Doctor Davenport’s inquiring.”

He then returned to the prescription he had been writing, and gave it
to Mrs Ballard, who was indignant at having her interview with her
doctor intruded upon.

“I’ll call to-morrow,” he soothed her; “you’ll be better in the
morning. Let fish alone, and stick to simple diet for a few days. Get
that address, Jenkins?”

“Yes, sir,” and the butler gave him a slip of paper.

“H’m—near Washington Square, not on it,” he murmured, looking at the
written number, and then he ran down the Ballard front steps, and
jumping into his waiting car, gave his chauffeur Gleason’s address.

“Wonder what’s up?” he thought, as his car rolled down Fifth Avenue.
“Accident, I suppose. Jordan is always on edge this time of night.
Have to take her excitement with a grain of salt.”

But when he reached the house, and pushed the button that indicated
McIlvaine’s apartment, there was no response from the closed street
door.

He rang again, long and insistently, then, still getting no
encouragement, he pushed another button.

The door gave a grudging grunt, and, unwillingly, as it seemed, moved
slowly inward.

Doctor Davenport was half way up the first flight of stairs, when a
woman’s head appeared through a doorway.

“What do you want?” she inquired, a little crisply.

“Mr McIlvaine’s apartment.”

“That’s it, opposite,” she returned, more affable as she caught sight
of the good-looking man. “Mr Gleason’s in there now.”

“Yes, he’s the man I want. Thank you, madame.”

She still stood, watching, as he rang the doorbell of the designated
apartment.

There was no answer, nor any sound from inside. The doctor looked
apprehensively at the door.

“Your key wouldn’t let me in, I suppose,” he said, turning back to the
now frankly curious spectator.

“Oh, Lord, no! We don’t have interchangeable keys! He’s out, I expect.
He’s mostly out.”

“But I want to get into his place——”

“You do! And he not there! You a friend of his?”

“Why—yes; I’m his doctor—and I’m afraid he’s ill.”

“Oh—that. But look here—if you’re his doctor, why didn’t you know
which was his place? You’re pretty slick, mister, but it’s a bit
fishy—I think.”

She half withdrew back into her own doorway, but curiosity still
detained her, and, too, Doctor Davenport’s demeanor impressed her as
being quite all right.

“Nothing wrong—is there?” she whispered, coming across the small
hall, and peering into the doctor’s face.

“Oh, no—I think not. But he may be helpless, and I must get in. I’ve
never been here before, but I’ve been called by him just now. I
_must_ get in. Where’s the janitor?”

“Where, indeed? If you can find him, I’ll bless you forever. I’ve
wanted him all day.”

“Isn’t he on duty?”

“He doesn’t know the meaning of duty. It’s something he’s never on.”

She smiled at him, and noticing her for the first time, Davenport saw
that she was handsome, in a careless, rather blatant way.

Her ash-blonde hair was loosely pinned up, and her dress—negligee or
tea-gown—was fussy with lace, and not quite immaculate.

Her wide, light blue eyes returned his scrutiny, and for an instant
each studied the other.

“There is something wrong,” she nodded, at last, “What you going to
do, Doctor?”

“I’m going to get in. I’ve wasted precious time already.” He ran down
the stairs and opening the front door summoned his chauffeur.

“Come up here, Chris,” he ordered, and the two returned together.

“Can we break in that door?” he said, ignoring the woman now.

“My husband’ll help,” she volunteered, but Chris was already
delivering effective blows.

However, the lock held, and turning to her, Doctor Davenport said, “Do
ask your husband to help us, please. I assure you it’s an emergency.
I’m Doctor Ely Davenport.”

“Come here, Jim,” she obeyed orders. “This is Doctor Davenport.”

“I’ve heard of you,” said a big, commonplace looking man, appearing.
“I’m Mansfield. What’s up?”

“I have reason to think Mr Gleason is very ill. He just telephoned for
me. I must get in. These old doors are strongly built, so I’d like
your help.”

Mansfield looked at him sharply, and seeming satisfied, put his
shoulder to the door.

United effort succeeded, and the three men entered, the woman hanging
back in fear.

Gleason lay on the floor, in a crumpled heap, and the first glance
proclaimed him dead.

Stooping quickly, Doctor Davenport felt for his heart, and shook his
head as he rose again to his feet.

“He’s dead,” he said, quietly. “Shot through the temple. Suicide,
apparently, as the door was locked on the inside. Better take your
wife away, Mr Mansfield. She’ll be getting hysterical.”

“No, I won’t,” declared the lady referred to, but she was quite
evidently pulling herself together. “Let me come in.”

“No,” forbade Davenport. “You’ve no call in here. Go back home, both
of you. I shall send for the police and wait till they come.”

But the doctor hesitated as he was about to touch the telephone.

The matter was mysterious. “Suicide, of course,” he ruminated, as he
remembered the message received by Nurse Jordan. “Shot himself, then,
still living, cried to me for help. Wish I knew exactly what he said
to Jordan. But, anyway, I’m not going to disturb things—there may be
trouble ahead. Guess I’ll leave the telephone alone—and everything
else.”

“Sit right here, Chris,” he said, “and don’t move or stir. Look around
all you like—note anything and everything that strikes you. I’ll be
back soon.”

Closing the broken door behind him, he went to the Mansfield’s
apartment and asked to use their telephone. On this, he called the
police, while the two listened eagerly.

“Why did he do it?” broke out Mrs Mansfield, as the receiver was hung
up. “Oh, Doctor, tell us something about it! I’m eaten alive with
curiosity.”

Her big blue eyes shone with excitement, which her husband tried to
suppress.

“Now, be quiet, Dottie,” he said, laying a hand on her shoulder.

“I won’t be quiet,” and she shook off the hand. “Here’s a great big
mystery right in my own house—on my own floor—and you say, ‘be
quiet!’ I’ve got a right to know all about it, and I’m going to! I’m
going up now, to tell Mrs Conway!”

Her husband held her back forcibly, but Doctor Davenport said, “Of
course, it must become known, and if Mrs Mansfield enjoys spreading
the news, I suppose she has a right to do so. No one may enter the
Gleason rooms, though—understand that.”

“Go on, then, Dottie,” Mansfield said; “maybe you’d better.”

“She’s very excitable,” he sighed, as his wife ran up the stairs.

“She’s better off, unburdening her news, than being thwarted,” said
the doctor, indifferently. “Let her do what she likes. What can you
tell me, Mr Mansfield, of your neighbor, Gleason?”

“Not much, Doctor. He kept to himself, as far as the people in this
house were concerned. We didn’t know him socially—no one in the house
did—and though he said good-day, if we met in the halls, it was with
a short and unsocial manner.”

“Nobody actively disliked him?”

“Nobody knew him well enough for that—unless—well, no, I may say
none of us knew him.”

“Yet you hesitated,” the doctor looked at him keenly; “why did you?”

“A mere passing thought—better left unspoken.”

“All right, Mr Mansfield—perhaps you are wise. But, if asked to,
you’d better speak your thought to the police.”

“Oh, sure. I’m a law-abiding citizen—I hope. Will they be here soon?”

“Nothing happens soon in matters like this. It’s delay, linger and
wait on the part of everybody. I’m bothered—I’ve important affairs on
hand—but here I must stick, till the arm of the law gets ready to
strike.”

Davenport returned to Gleason’s apartment, where the stolid Chris kept
guard.

“Well?” said the doctor, glancing at his man.

“Looks like a suicide to me, sir. Looks like he shot himself—there’s
the revolver—I haven’t touched it. And then he fell over all in a
heap.”

“It seems he telephoned after he shot——”

“He did? How could he?”

“Look again at his position. Near the desk, on which the telephone
sits. He might have shot, and then——”

“Not that shot in his temple!”

“No; but there may be another. I haven’t looked carefully yet. Ah,
yes—see, Chris, here’s another bullet hole, in his left shoulder.
Say, he fired that shot, then, getting cold feet, called off the
suicide idea and telephoned for me. Then, getting desperate again,
fired a second shot through his temple, which, of course, did for
him—oh, a fanciful tale, I know—but, you see, the detective work
isn’t up to me. When the police come they’ll look after that and I can
go.”

But the police, arriving, were very much interested in this theory of
Doctor Davenport’s.

Prescott, an alert young detective, who came with the inspector
especially interested the physician by his keen-witted and clearly put
questions.

“Did you know this man?” he asked among his first queries.

“Yes,” returned Davenport, “but not well. I’ve never been here
before. He’s Robert Gleason, a very rich man, from Seattle. Staying
here this winter, in this apartment which belongs to McIlvaine, a
friend of Gleason’s.”

“Where’s McIlvaine?”

“In California. Gleason took over the place, furnished and all, for
the winter months.”

“Any relatives?”

“Yes”; Davenport hated to drag in the Lindsays, but it had to be done.
“His sister, Mrs Lindsay, lives in upper Park Avenue.”

“Have you called her up?”

“No; I thought wiser to do nothing, until you people came. Also, I’m a
very busy man, and outside my actual duty here, I can’t afford to
spend much time.”

“I see. Then the sister is the only relative in New York?”

“I think so. There are two Lindsay children, but they’re not hers. She
married a widower.”

“I see. And the address?”

Doctor Davenport gave it, and then started to go.

“Wait a minute, please,” urged Prescott. “Had the dead man any
friends, that you know of?”

“Oh, yes. Many of them. He was put up at the Camberwell Club, by
McIlvaine himself. And he had many friends among the members.”

“Names?”

Doctor Davenport thought quickly, and decided to give no names of the
group that had been with Gleason that same afternoon.

He gave the names of three other Club members, and sending Chris down
ahead, again endeavored to depart himself.

Again Prescott detained him.

“Sorry, Doc,” he said, pleasantly, “but you’re here now, and something
tells me it’ll be hard to get hold of you again, once I lose you.
Inspector Gale, here, is putting through the necessary red tape and
all that, and he’ll see to notifying relatives and friends, and he’ll
take charge of the premises—but—well, I’ve a hunch, this isn’t a
suicide.”

“What, murder?” cried the doctor, his quick acceptance of the
suggestion proving the thought had been in his own mind.

“Well, you never can tell. And I want to get all the sidelight on the
case I can. Was Mr Gleason happy—and all that?”

“Yes; so far as I know. I tell you I was not an intimate—scarcely
enough to be called a friend—merely an acquaintance.”

“I see. Had the man any enemies?”

The direct glance that accompanied these words discomfited Davenport a
little.

“Why do you ask me that?” he said, shortly. “How should I know?”

“Oh, it’s a thing anybody might know—even a mere acquaintance. And
your desperate hurry to get away makes me think you don’t take kindly
to this catechism.”

“Rubbish! I’m a busy man—a doctor sometimes is. I’ve numerous and
important engagements for the evening. Now, if that’s incriminating,
make the most of it!”

“Fie, fie, don’t get peeved! Now, tell me once again, what the injured
man said to your nurse and I’ll let you go.”

“I don’t know the exact words. I’ve not seen her. But he called my
office, said he was shot, and for me to come right here and quickly.
That’s all I know of the message. Now as to my report—it’s that the
man received two shots—whether by his own hand or another’s. One, in
his left shoulder—and another—the fatal one—through his temple,
producing instant death. You can get me at any time—if necessary. But
I don’t want to be hauled over here, or summoned to headquarters to
repeat these facts. I’ll send a typed report, and I’ll do anything in
reason—but I know how you detectives mull over things, and how your
slow processes eat up time—which though it seems of little account to
you, is mighty valuable to me.”

“Yes, sir—yes, sir. Now if you’ll speak to Inspector Gale a minute,
you can go.”

Grunting an assent, Davenport waited for the Inspector to finish
writing a bit of memorandum on which he was busily engaged.

The doctor was sitting in a big easy chair, and as he squirmed
impatiently, he felt something soft beneath his heavy frame.

Feeling about the chair cushions, he found it was fur, and a fleeting
thought that he had sat on a cat passed through his mind.

A second later he knew it was a fur strip, probably a neck piece,
doubtless belonging to some woman.

Now, the doctor had a very soft place in his heart or the feminine sex
in general, and his mind leaped to the idea of this fur, left there by
some indiscreet girl visitor, and the possibility of its getting the
doubtless innocent young lady into a moil of trouble.

Also, he had a dim, indistinct notion that he recognized the fur, at
which he had stolen a furtive look.

At any rate, unseen by the Inspector or either of his two colleagues
present, Davenport adroitly slipped the small fur collar into his
capacious overcoat pocket, and sat, looking as innocent of duplicity
as a canary-fed cat.

“Now, Doctor,” and Inspector Gale frowned importantly, “this may be a
simple case of suicide, and again it may not. So, I want your opinion
as to whether it is possible that both those shots were fired by Mr
Gleason himself.”

“Quite possible, Inspector, and, it seems to me, decidedly probable,
as I cannot see how the victim could have telephoned, with a murderer
in the room.”

“That’s apparently true, but we have to think of even the remotest
possibilities. If the murderer—granting there was one—had been
merely intending to frighten his victim, maybe a robber, he might have
been—and if after that call for help, the intruder finished off his
victim—oh, well, all these ideas must be looked into, you know. The
case is not entirely clear to me.”

“Nor to me,” returned Davenport, “but I cannot feel that I can help
you in your deductions. Answering your questions, I say it would have
been quite possible for Mr Gleason to have fired those two shots
himself. You see the first one hit his left shoulder, leaving his
right arm available to fire the second shot.”

“Why did he merely maim himself first?”

“Heavens, man! I don’t know. Missed aim, perhaps—or, just shooting
for practice! Such questions make me mad! If you want any more medical
statements, say so—if not, for goodness’ sake, let me go!”

“For goodness’ sake, let him go,” repeated Prescott, and Dr Davenport
went.

“Some mess,” Prescott said, after the doctor’s angry footsteps tramped
down the stairs.




CHAPTER III

The Lindsays


“You’re sure no one in this building knew Mr Gleason any better than
you two did?” Prescott asked of the Mansfields, as he put them through
a course of questioning.

“Oh, no,” Mrs Mansfield informed him, volubly, “and we didn’t know him
much, but being on the same floor—there are only two apartments on
each floor, we saw him once in a while, going in or out, and he would
bow distantly, and mumble ‘good-morning,’ but that’s all.”

“You heard no noise from his apartment, during the last hour?”

“No; but I wasn’t noticing. It’s across the hall, you know, and the
walls are thick in these old houses.”

“Was he going out, do you think?” asked Jim Mansfield, thoughtfully.
“He always went out to dinner.”

“Probably he was, then. It’s evident he was dressing—he was in his
shirtsleeves—his day shirt—and his evening clothes were laid out on
the bed.”

“When did it happen?”

“As nearly as I can make out, he telephoned for the doctor about
quarter before seven. He must have expired shortly after. As I figure
it—oh, well, the medical examiner is in there now, and I don’t want
to discuss the details until he gets through his examination. It’s an
interesting case, but I’m only out for side evidence. What about
Gleason’s visitors? Did he have many?”

“No,” offered Mrs Mansfield, “but he had some. I’ve heard—well,
people go in there, and he was mighty glad to see them, judging by the
gay laughter and chatter.”

“Oh—lady friends?”

Mrs Mansfield smiled, but her husband said quickly, “Shut up, Dottie!
You talk too much! You’ll get us involved in this case, and make a lot
of trouble. He had callers occasionally, Mr Prescott, but we never
knew who they were and we’ve no call to remark on them.”

“Well, I give you the call. Don’t you see, man, your information may
be vitally necessary——”

Here Prescott was recalled to the Gleason apartment.

The medical examiner had concluded his task. He agreed with Doctor
Davenport that the shots could have been fired by Gleason himself,
though, but for the locked door, he should have thought them the acts
of another person. The presence of powder stains proved that the shots
were fired at close range, but not necessarily by the dead man
himself.

Still, the door being locked on the inside, it looked like suicide.

“No,” Prescott disagreed, “that doesn’t cut any ice. You see, it’s a
spring catch. It fastens itself when closed. If an intruder was here
and went out again, closing that door behind him, it would have locked
itself.”

“That’s right,” assented Gale. “So, it may be suicide or murder. But
we’ll find out which. We’ve hardly begun to investigate yet. Now, we
must let his sister know.”

“It’s pretty awful to spring it on her over the telephone,” demurred
Prescott, as Gale started for the desk.

“Got to be done,” Inspector Gale declared, “I mean we’ve got to tell
somebody who knew him. How about those men at the Club?”

“That’s better,” consented Prescott. “Just call the Camberwell Club,
and get any one of those Davenport mentioned. But, I say, Gale, use
the Mansfields’ telephone. I’m saving up this one for fingerprint
work.”

“Oh, you and your fingerprint work!” Gale grumbled. “You attach too
much importance to that, Prescott.”

“All right, but you let the telephone alone. And the revolver, too.
Why, I wouldn’t have those touched for anything! I’ll get them
photographed to-morrow. Shall I call the Club?”

“Yes,” grunted Gale, and Prescott went back to the opposite apartment.

“Sorry to trouble you people,” he said, with his winning smile, “but
if you object, say so, and I’ll run out to a drug store.”

“None around here,” vouchsafed Mansfield, looking a little annoyed at
the intrusion, however. “Isn’t there a telephone in the Gleason
rooms?”

“Yes; but I don’t want to use that.” Prescott had already taken up the
Mansfield receiver. “Please let me have this one,” and a bright smile
at Dottie Mansfield made her his ally.

Getting the Club, Prescott asked for the names Davenport had supplied.
Only one man was available, and Mr Harper was finally connected.

“What is it?” he asked, curtly.

“Mr Robert Gleason has been found dead in his home,” Prescott stated;
“and as you’re said to be a friend of his, I’m asking you to inform
his sister, or——”

“Indeed I won’t! Why should I be asked to do such an unpleasant
errand? I’ve merely a nodding acquaintance with Mr Gleason. Dead, you
say? Apoplexy?”

“No; shot.”

“Good God! Murdered?”

“We don’t know. Murder or suicide. I’m Detective Prescott. I want you
to tell his sister, or advise me how best to break the news to her.
She’s Mrs Lindsay——”

“Yes, yes—I know. Well, now, let me see. Dead! Why, the man was here
this afternoon.”

“Yes; apparently he returned home safely, and while dressing for
dinner, either shot himself or was shot by some one else.”

“Never shot himself in the world! Robert Gleason? No, never shot
himself. Well, let me see—let me see. Suppose you call up some closer
friend of his. Really, I knew him but slightly.”

“All right. Who was his nearest friend?”

“Humph—I don’t know. He wasn’t long on intimate friends!”

“Little liked?”

“I wouldn’t say that—but close friends, now—let me see; he was
talking this afternoon with a bunch—Doctor Davenport, Phil Barry,
Dean Monroe, Manning Pollard—oh, yes, Fred Lane. And maybe others.
But I know I saw him in the group I’ve just mentioned. Call up
Davenport.”

“Tell me the next best one to call.”

“Barry—but wait—they had a quarrel recently. Try Lane or Pollard.”

“Addresses?”

These were given and as soon as he could get connection, Prescott
called Pollard.

But he was out, and Philip Barry was also.

“Can’t expect to get anybody at the dinner hour,” Prescott said, and
looked at his watch. “After eight, already. One more throw, and then I
make straight for the sister.”

Fred Lane proved available.

“No!” he exclaimed at the news Prescott told. “You don’t mean it! Why
I was talking with him yesterday. And only to-night I heard—Oh, I
say,” he pulled himself together. “Tell me the details. Can I do
anything?”

“You sure can. Break it to Mrs Lindsay, Gleason’s sister.”

“Oh, not that! Don’t ask me to. I’m—I’m no good at that sort of
thing. I say—let me off it. Get somebody else——”

“I’ve been trying to, and I can’t. If you won’t do it, I’ll have to
call up the lady and tell her myself—or go there.”

“That’s it. Go there. And, I say, get her son—her stepson, you
know—young Lindsay. He’s not related to Gleason—and so——”

“That’s it! Fine idea. I’ll see the young man. What’s his name?”

“Louis Lindsay. There’s a girl, too. Miss Phyllis. She’s more of a man
than her brother—oh, not a masculine type at all—I don’t mean that,
but she’s a whole lot stronger character than the chappie. It might be
better to tell her. But do as you like.”

“Thank you for the information, Mr Lane. Good-by.”

“Oh, wait a minute. Do you think Gleason killed himself?”

“Dunno yet. Lots of things to be looked into. I don’t think it will be
a difficult case to handle, yet it has its queer points. Did you say
you heard something——”

“Oh, no—no.”

“Out with it, man. Better tell anything you know.”

“Don’t know anything. You going to the Lindsays’ now?”

“Yes, I think so.”

“Well, there’s a dinner party on there. A big one—followed by a dance.
I mean it was to have been followed by a dance. Your news will change
their plans!”

“You’re rather unconcerned yourself! Didn’t you like Gleason?”

“Not overly. Yet he was a big man in many ways. But, come now, wasn’t
he bumped off?”

“By whom?”

“I’m not saying. But while you’re at the Lindsays’, look out Dean
Monroe—and ask him what he knows about it!”

“Dean Monroe! The artist?”

“Yes. Oh, he isn’t the criminal—if there _is_ a criminal. But
maybe he can give you a tip. I’m mighty interested. How can I hear the
result of your investigations?”

“Guess it’ll be in the morning papers. Anyway, I may want to see you.”

“All right; call me up or call on me whenever you like. I’m
interested—a whole lot!”

“Guess I’d better go right to the Lindsay house,” Prescott said, going
back to the Gleason apartment. “There’s a big party on there, and it
ought to be stopped. It’s an awkward situation. You see, Mrs Lindsay,
Gleason’s sister, has two step-children—they’re having the party, as
I make it out. But they’ve got to be told.”

“Yes,” agreed Gale; “go along, Prescott. And you’d better have
somebody with you.”

“Not at first. Let me handle it alone, and I can call Briggs if I want
him.”

“Go on, then. The sooner we start something the better. I incline more
and more to the murder theory, but if the sister thinks there was any
reason for suicide—well, run along, Prescott.”

Prescott ran along, and reached the Lindsay home, on upper Park
Avenue, shortly after nine o’clock.

He was admitted by a smiling maid, and he asked for Mr Lindsay.

“He’s still at dinner,” she returned, doubtfully, glancing at
Prescott’s informal dress. “Can you come some other time?”

“No; the matter is urgent. You must ask him to leave the table and
come to me here.”

His manner was imperative, and the maid went on her errand.

In a moment Louis Lindsay came to Prescott, where the detective
waited, in the reception hall.

“What is it, my man?” said Lindsay, looking superciliously at his
visitor. “I can’t see you now.”

“Just a moment, Mr Lindsay. Listen, please.”

Noting the grave face and serious voice of the speaker, young Lindsay
seemed to become panic-stricken.

“What is it?” he said, in a gasping whisper. “Oh, what _is_ it?”

“Why do you look like that?” Prescott said quickly. “What do you
_think_ it is?”

“I don’t know—I’m sure! Tell me!”

The boy, for he was little more than a boy, was ghastly white, his
hands trembled and his lips quivered. He took hold of a chair back to
steady himself, and Prescott, remembering what he had been told of
Miss Lindsay, was tempted to ask for her. But he somehow felt he must
go on with this scene.

“It’s about your uncle—or rather your step-uncle—Mr Gleason.”

Lindsay slumped into a chair, and raised his wild, staring black eyes
to Prescott’s face.

“Go on,” he muttered; “what about him?”

“Didn’t you expect him here to-night?”

“Yes—yes—and he didn’t come—what is it? Has anything happened? What
has happened? Who did it?”

“Who did what?” Prescott flung the words at him, in a fierce low tone.
“What do you know? Out with it!”

His menacing air quite finished the young man, and he buried his face
in his hands, sobbing convulsively.

A slight rustle was heard, and a lovely vision appeared in the
doorway.

“What is going on?” said a clear young voice. “Louis, what is the
matter?”

Phyllis Lindsay faced the stranger as she put her query.

The sight nearly dazzled Prescott, for Miss Lindsay was at her best
that night.

She was a little thing, with soft dark hair, bundled about her ears,
soft, dark eyes, that were now challenging Prescott sternly, and a
slim, dainty little figure, robed in sequin-dripping gauze, from which
her soft neck and shoulders rose like a flower from its sheath.

“Who are you?” she asked, not rudely, but with her eyes wide in
dismay. “What are you doing to my brother?”

“Miss Lindsay?” and Prescott bowed politely. “I bring distressing
news. Your uncle—that is, Mr Robert Gleason, is—has—well, perhaps
frankness is best—he is dead.”

“Robert Gleason!” Phyllis turned as pale as her brother, but preserved
her calm. “Tell me—tell me all about it.”

She, too, placed her little hand on a chair, as if the grip of
something solid helped, and turned her anxious eyes to Prescott.

“I thought better to tell you young people,” he began, “and let you
tell your mother—Mr Gleason’s sister.”

“Yes; I will tell her,” said Phyllis, with dignity. “Go on, Mr——”

“Prescott,” he supplied. “The facts in brief are these. Mr Gleason
called up Doctor Davenport on the telephone, and asked the doctor to
come to him, as he was—well, hurt. When the doctor reached there, Mr
Gleason was dead.”

“What killed him?” Phyllis spoke very quietly, and looked Prescott
straight in the face. Yet the alert eyes of the detective saw her
fingers clench more tightly on the chair, and noticed her red lips
lose a little color as they set themselves in a firm line.

He thought her even more beautiful thus, than when she had first
arrived, smiling.

“The Medical Examiner is not quite sure, Miss Lindsay. It may be that
he took his own life—or it may be——”

“That he was—murdered,” she said, her gaze never wavering from
Prescott’s face.

It was a bit disconcerting, and the detective oddly felt himself at a
disadvantage. Yet he went on, inexorably.

“Yes; either deduction is possible.”

“How—how was he killed?”

At last her calm gave way a little. The tremor of her voice as she
asked this question proved her not so self-controlled as she had
seemed.

“He was shot.” Prescott watched both brother and sister as he spoke.
But Louis still kept his face hidden in his hands, and Phyllis was
once more perfectly calm.

“What with?” she went on.

“His own revolver. It was found close beside the body, and so as I
said, it might have been——”

“Yes, I know what you said.” Phyllis interrupted him impatiently, as
if deeming repetition of the theories unnecessary. “How shall we tell
Millicent?”

“Mrs Lindsay?” asked Prescott respectfully.

“Yes; we have never called her mother, of course.” She looked at
Louis. “Go to your rooms, if you wish, Buddy,” she said, kindly, and
Prescott marveled at this slight, dainty young thing taking the
situation into her own hands.

“No, I’ll stand by,” Louis muttered, as he rose slowly. “What shall we
do? Call her out here?”

“That would do,” said Prescott, “or take her to some other room. The
guests must be told—and the party——”

“The party broken up and the guests sent home——” Phyllis declared.
“But first, let’s tell Millicent. She’ll be terribly upset.”

At Phyllis’ dictation, Prescott and young Lindsay went into the little
library. Like the other rooms this was beflowered for the party and
scant of furniture, for dancing purposes. The Lindsay apartment was a
fine one, yet not over large, and sounds of conversation and light
laughter came from the dining room. Phyllis quickly brought Mrs
Lindsay from the dinner table, and they joined the men.

As the girl had predicted, her stepmother was greatly shocked and her
nerves utterly upset by Prescott’s story.

The detective said little after outlining the facts, but listened
closely while these members of the family talked. Though there on the
ungracious errand of breaking the sad news, he was also eagerly
anxious to learn any hints as to the solution of the mystery.

“Oh, of course, he never killed himself!” declared the dead
man’s sister. “Why should he? He had everything life can offer to
live for. He was rich, talented, and engaged to Phyllis, whom he
adored—worshipped! How can any one think he would kill himself?”

“But the evidence is uncertain,” Prescott began; “you see——”

“Of course the evidence is uncertain,” Phyllis broke in. “It always is
uncertain! You detectives don’t know evidence when you see it! Or you
read it wrongly and make false deductions!”

“Why, Phyllis,” remonstrated her brother, “don’t talk like that! You
may——” he hesitated a long time, “you may make trouble,” he
concluded, lamely.

“Trouble, how?” Prescott caught him up.

“Don’t you say another word, Louis,” Phyllis ordered him. “You keep
still. Millicent, you go to your room, and let Martha look after you.
Louis, you either go to your room—or, if you stay here, don’t babble.
Mind, now! Mr Prescott, we must tell the guests. Come with me and we
will tell those at the table. They will go home, and those who come
later can be told at the door and sent away.”

“Very well, Miss Lindsay,” Prescott replied, feeling that here was a
strength of character he had never seen equaled in such a mere slip of
a girl!

They went to the dining room, and without preamble, Phyllis said:

“Listen, people. I’ve very bad news. Mr Gleason—Robert Gleason—has
just been found dead in his home. He was shot——” Her voice, steady
till this moment, suddenly broke down, and as her eyes filled with
tears, Philip Barry, who had already risen, hastened to her side.

There was a general commotion, the ladies rising now, and with scared
faces, whispering to one another.

“Wait a moment,” Prescott spoke, as some seemed about to leave; “I
must ask you all if you know anything of importance concerning the
movements of Mr Gleason this afternoon or evening. I am a detective,
the case is a little mysterious, and it may be necessary to question
some of you. Will any one volunteer information?”

Nobody did so, and Prescott, steeling himself against the entreaties
of Phyllis that all be allowed to depart, asked several of their
knowledge of the man.

Most of these declared they were unacquainted with Mr Gleason’s
whereabouts on that day, and some denied knowing the man at all. These
were allowed to go, and at last, Prescott found himself surrounded by
the men who knew Gleason and who had seen him that very day.

These included Barry, Pollard and Monroe, of the group that had talked
together at the Club in the afternoon, and one or two others who had
seen Gleason during the day.

Each was questioned as to the probability, in his opinion, of Robert
Gleason having shot himself.

“I can’t make a decision,” Philip Barry said; “to my mind, Gleason
would be quite capable of doing any crazy or impulsive thing. He may
have had a fit of depression, he sometimes did, and feeling extra
blue, may have wanted to end it all. But, also it’s quite on the cards
that somebody did for him.”

“Why do you say that, Mr Barry?” asked the detective.

“Because you asked me for my opinion,” was the retort. “That’s it. I
would believe anything of Gleason. I’m not knocking him—but he was a
freak—eccentric, you know——”

“Oh, not quite that,” Dean Monroe spoke very seriously. “Mr Gleason
was a Westerner, and had different ideas from some of ours, but he was
a good sort——”

“Good sort!” scoffed Barry. “I’d like to know what you call a bad
sort, then!”

“Hush, Phil,” Phyllis said, quietly. “Don’t talk like that of a man
who is dead.”

“Forgive me, Phyllis, I forgot myself. Well, Mr Prescott, I can only
say you’ll have to solve your mystery on the evidence you find; for I
assure you Mr Gleason would fit into almost any theory.”

Prescott questioned Dean Monroe next, remembering what Lane had told
him over the telephone.

But, though interested, Monroe told nothing definitely suggestive, and
at last Prescott said, directly, “Do you know anything, Mr Monroe,
that makes you suspect that Mr Gleason might have been killed by an
intruder?”

“Why—why, no,” stammered the young artist, quite palpably
prevaricating.

“I think you do, and I must remind you that I have a right to demand
the truth.”

“Well, then,” Monroe looked positively frightened, “then—I say,
Manning, maybe it’ll be better for me to speak out—I heard somebody
say to-day, that he meant to—to kill Gleason.”

“Indeed,” and Prescott, accustomed as he was to surprises, stared
wonderingly at the speaker. “And who said that?”

But Monroe obstinately shook his head and spoke no word.

Philip Barry raised his head with a jerk and looked straight at
Manning Pollard.

Pollard’s face was white, and his voice not quite steady, but he
stated, “I said it.”

“Why?” asked Prescott, simply.

“Oh—oh, because—I—I don’t—didn’t like Gleason.”

“And so you killed him?”

“I haven’t said so.”

“I’m asking you.”

“And I’m not obliged to incriminate myself, am I?” Pollard looked at
him coldly.

“Where were you between six and seven this evening?”

“I refuse to tell,” Pollard answered, with a belligerent look, and
Prescott nodded his head, with a satisfied smile.




CHAPTER IV

Pollard’s Threat


“Of course, you know, Mr Pollard,” Prescott said, “you are
incriminating yourself by your refusal to answer my question. No one
is as yet under suspicion of crime—indeed, it is not certain that a
crime has been committed—but it is my duty to learn all I can of the
circumstances of the case, and I must ask you what you meant by a
threat to kill Mr Gleason.”

“It wasn’t exactly a threat,” Pollard returned, speaking slowly, and
looked decidedly uncomfortable; “it was merely a—a statement.”

“A statement that you would like to—to see him dead?”

“Well, yes, practically that.”

“Why?”

“Because I didn’t like the man. I took a dislike to him the first time
I saw him, and I never got over it.”

“But that’s not reason enough to kill a man.”

“I haven’t said I killed him. But I hold it is reason enough. I hold
that an utter detestation of seeing a person around, a positive
irritation at his mere presence, is a stronger motive for murder than
the more obvious ones of jealousy or greed.”

“You weren’t jealous of Mr Gleason?”

Pollard started, the detective had scored that time.

But he replied, quietly. “Not jealous, no.”

“Envious?”

“Your questions are a bit intrusive, but I think I may safely say many
men were envious of Mr Gleason.”

“On what grounds?”

“Oh, he was wealthy, important and of a happy, satisfied disposition.
Truly an enviable person.”

Pollard’s manner was indifferent and his tone light and flippant.
Prescott a judge of human nature and an expert detective, concluded
the man was sparring for time, or trying to camouflage his guilt with
an effect of careless unconcern in the matter.

“I think, Mr Pollard,” he said, seriously, “I shall have to insist on
knowing your whereabouts at the time of Mr Gleason’s death.”

“And I refuse to tell you. But, look here, Mr Prescott, as I
understand it, Mr Gleason was found dead in his room, with the door
fastened. How do you argue from that a murderer at all? How could he
get out and lock the door behind him? Where was the key?”

“Spring catch,” Prescott returned, shortly. “Snapped shut as he closed
the door.”

“Oh, come now, Pollard,” said Philip Barry, “say where you were at
that time. Six to seven, was it? Why, Pol, you were walking down Fifth
Avenue with me. We left the Club together.”

“Did we?” said Pollard. His face was inscrutable. It seemed as if he
had made up his mind that no information should be gathered from his
words or manner. Prescott, watching him closely thought he had never
seen such a strange man, and decided that he was the criminal he
sought, and a mighty clever one at that.

Manning Pollard was tall and large, and of fine presence. He would not
be called handsome, but he had a well-shaped head, well set on his
broad shoulders. His special charm was his smile, which, though rare,
was spontaneous and illuminated his face with a real radiance whenever
he saw fit to favor his auditors. However, his expression was usually
calm and thoughtful, while occasionally it became supercilious and
even cynical.

When displeased, Pollard was impossible. He shut up like a clam and
preserved a stony silence or blurted out some caustic, almost rude
speech.

“Yes, we did,” went on Barry, eagerly. “And I left you at Forty-fourth
Street.”

“Did you?” said Pollard, in the same colorless voice.

Now Philip Barry had little love for Manning Pollard. To begin with,
they were both in love with the same girl, and—as either of them
would have agreed—there was no use in going further than that.

Moreover, they were of widely different temperament. Barry was all
artist; dreamy, impractical, full of enthusiasms and a bit visionary.
Pollard was a hard-headed business man, successful, rich and
influential, but not by any means universally liked, by reason of his
sarcastic and cynical outlook. Yet he was polite and courteous of
demeanor, and his imperturbable calm and unshakable poise gave him an
air of superiority that could not be gainsaid.

Up to a few months ago the two men had been chums—were still—but the
advent of Phyllis Lindsay into their circle had made a difference.

For, though many men admired the little beauty, Pollard and Barry were
the most favored and each felt an ever-increasing hope that he might
win her.

Then along had come Robert Gleason, the brother of Phyllis’
stepmother. He was at the Lindsay home continually, and by some means
or for some reason he had persuaded the girl to marry him. At least,
he implied that at the Club in the afternoon, and both Pollard and
Barry had been greatly disturbed thereby.

But others were also greatly disturbed and the news, which had flown
like wildfire, had caused panic in the breasts of several who were to
attend the dinner or the dance.

Then had come the dinner, and the unexplained absence of Gleason. They
had telephoned his place twice, but could get no response, Phyllis
told the detective in the course of his questioning.

“H’m,” Prescott listened; “at what time did you call him up, Miss
Lindsay?”

“Why, about seven o’clock, I think. I was dressing for dinner, and I
happened to think of something I wanted to ask Mr Gleason, and I
called his number. But nobody answered, so I concluded to wait till he
arrived to ask him.”

“And the next time? You called him twice?”

“Yes; the next time was when dinner was ready—about eight. He wasn’t
here, and I thought it so strange—I—telephoned——”

“Yourself?” asked Prescott, quickly, scenting unexpected information.

“No—I—I asked one of the guests to do it.”

“Which one?”

“Me.” Pollard smiled at Phyllis. “Miss Lindsay asked me to telephone
to Mr Gleason, and I did, but no one answered the call.”

The speaker turned his calm eyes to Prescott, and met the detective’s
suspicious gaze.

“You’re sure you called, Mr Pollard,” Prescott asked, his tone plainly
indicating his own doubt.

“I have said so,” Pollard replied, and let his own glance wander
indifferently aside.

“Well, I don’t believe you!” Prescott was angered at Pollard’s quite
evident lack of interest in his inquiries, and he now spoke sharply.
“I believe, Mr Pollard, that you know more than you have told
regarding this matter, and unless you see fit to become more
communicative, I shall have to resort to outside inquiry as to your
own movements this evening, prior to your arrival here.”

“That is your privilege,” Pollard said, with an exaggerated
politeness.

“It is my duty also,” Prescott retorted, “and I shall begin right now.
You say you left Mr Pollard on Fifth Avenue, Mr Barry?”

“Yes,” was the reply.

“At what time?”

“About six o’clock.”

“It was ten minutes past,” Pollard volunteered, still with the air of
superior knowledge that exasperated Prescott almost beyond bounds.

“Did any one present see Mr Pollard between that time and his arrival
here for dinner?” Prescott looked about the room.

No one responded, and the detective said, curtly:

“Where do you live, Mr Pollard?”

“At the Hotel Crosby, Fortieth Street, near Fifth Avenue,” and this
time Pollard gave his questioner one of his best smiles, which had the
effect of embarrassing him greatly.

But with determination, he took up the telephone and called the hotel.

“Ask for the doorman,” said Pollard, helpfully.

Prescott did, and learned that Mr Pollard was out. “Had he been in?”
“Yes, he had come in soon after six o’clock, and had left again,
later, in a taxicab.”

Nothing more definite could be learned, and Prescott hung up the
receiver, conscious only of a great desire to get down to the hotel
and ask questions before Pollard could get there himself.

But first, he must look into other matters, and he turned his
attention to the guests who sat round, all looking decidedly
uncomfortable and some very much scared.

“Now look here, Mr Prescott,” said Pollard, with the air of one
humoring a spoiled child, “you have your duty to do—we all comprehend
that. But can’t you satisfy yourself regarding the innocence of most
of these men and women, and let them go home? I assume there will be
no dance this evening, and the troublesome circumstance of sending
away the guests who are yet expected will be about all Miss
Lindsay—and her brother,” he added, with a sudden remembrance of the
unhelpful Louis—“can cope with. I will await your pleasure, as you
seem to have picked me out for suspicion, but do get through with
these others.”

Angry at this good advice, coming from the man he was questioning, and
embarrassed because it was really good advice, Prescott began, a
little sulkily, to take the names and addresses of many of them, and
inform them they were free to leave. He detained any he thought might
be useful to him, and among them he held Barry and Dean Monroe.

This matter took some time, especially as Prescott was twice
interrupted by telephone.

Mrs Lindsay and Louis had retired to their rooms, and Phyllis, at the
helm of the situation, proved herself a staunch and capable upholder
of the dignity of the Lindsay family.

“Send away all you can, please, Mr Prescott,” she requested. “Mr
Pollard is right; I have my hands full. I will give the doorman, who
is from the caterer’s, instructions to explain the situation and admit
none of the evening guests. But, I daresay some intimate friends will
insist on coming in. Shall I allow it?”

“Better not, Miss Lindsay. You see, there’s no use giving the thing
more publicity than you have to. The reporters will come, of course.
Will you see them?”

“Oh, goodness, no! Let some of the men do that. Mr Pollard, won’t
you?”

“I’d prefer Mr Monroe should,” interrupted Prescott, and winced under
Pollard’s smile.

“Oh, Manning,” said Dean Monroe, “why do you act like that! You make
people suspect you, whether they want to or not.”

“Suspect all you like, Dean,” came the quiet reply; “if I’m innocent,
suspicion can’t hurt me. If I’m guilty, I ought to be suspected.”

“You did say you intended to kill Gleason,” Monroe repeated, staring
at Pollard. “It’s queer he should be killed right afterward.”

“Mighty queer,” agreed Pollard. “But are you sure he was murdered?”

“Yes,” said Prescott. “Inspector Gale told me over the telephone just
now, that further investigation proves it is a murder case. I think,
Mr Pollard, I’ll ask you to go with me right now to your hotel. I want
to check up your story.”

“But I haven’t told you any story,” said Pollard.

“Well, then,” Prescott shrugged impatiently, “I’ll check up the story
you didn’t tell! Come along. Anybody got a car I can borrow?”

Nobody had, as the guests had all expected to remain the whole
evening. So Prescott called a taxicab, and soon the two started for
Pollard’s hotel.

“You’re a queer guy,” the detective said, the semi-darkness in the cab
giving him greater freedom of speech.

“As how?” asked Pollard, quietly.

“Well, first, saying you proposed to kill a man.”

“I’m not unique. I’ve often heard people say, ‘I’d like to kill him!’
or ‘I wish he was dead!’”

“Yes, but they don’t mean it.”

“How do you know I meant it?”

“I don’t, for sure, but I’m going to find out. If you haven’t got an
air-tight alibi—it’s going to be trouble for yours!”

“I haven’t any alibi. Guilty people prepare alibis.”

“That’s all right. You’re cute enough to fix an alibi that don’t look
to be fixed! But I’ll see through it. Here we are. Come along.”

“A little less dictating, please, Mr Prescott. Remember, I’m not under
arrest.”

“Not yet—but soon!” was the retort as the two men entered the small,
but exclusive, hotel where Manning Pollard made his home.

The doorman bowed, pleasantly, but not obsequiously, and Prescott went
straight to the desk.

“I want to learn,” he said, straightforwardly, “all you can tell me of
the movements of Mr Pollard tonight between six and seven o’clock.”

The clerk at the desk smiled at Pollard and gazed inquiringly at the
other.

“Better tell him, Simpson,” said Pollard; “he’s a detective, and he’s
a right to ask. I’m under a cloud—I think I may call it that—and
he’s going to—well, clear me.”

Pollard’s smile flashed out, and the desk clerk, in his turn, smiled
at the investigator.

“Go ahead, sir,” he agreed, “what do you want to know?”

“What time did Mr Pollard come in this afternoon?”

“What time, Henry?” the clerk asked the doorman.

“’Bout quarter past six,” was the reply. “I come on at six, and I’d
been here a bit before Mr Pollard came along.”

“What did he do?” went on Prescott, a little less certain of his
convictions.

“Went up in the elevator.”

“Same elevator boy on now?”

“Yes, sir. The car’s up. Be down in a minute.”

It was; and the elevator boy related that he had taken Mr Pollard up
as soon as he came into the hotel.

“Went right to his room, did he?”

“Yes, sir.” The woolly-headed one rolled his eyes in enjoyment of his
sudden importance. “I knows he did, kase I watched after him.”

“Why did you look after him?”

“No reason, p’tikler. Only kase he’s such a fine gentleman. I most
allus looks at him march down the hall. He marches like a—a platoon.”

“He does? And he marched straight to his room?”

“Yessuh.”

“When did you bring him down again?”

“’Bout an hour later, all dressed up in his glad raggses. Just like he
is now.”

“Just so. Now, during that hour do you know that Mr Pollard didn’t
leave his room? Didn’t go down stairs again?”

“Not in my car, he didn’t. And he always uses my car.”

“Ask the other boy.” Prescott gave this order shortly. The scene was
getting on his nerves. Pollard, quiet, calm, but superior. The clerk,
ready to enjoy the detective’s discomfiture, if he failed to prove the
point he was evidently trying hard to make. Black Bob, the elevator
boy, his white teeth all in evidence, and his admiration for Pollard
equally plain to be seen. And even the telephone girl, smirking from
her switchboard nearby.

All of these were in sympathy with Pollard, and Prescott felt himself
a rank outsider. But he persevered.

Joe, the other elevator boy, declared he had not carried Mr Pollard up
or down that evening, and the clerk said there were but two cars.

“Go on, Mr Prescott,” Pollard adjured him. “I have prepared no
air-tight alibi.”

“Did any one here see Mr Pollard in his room,” the detective asked in
desperation, and to his surprise a bellhop piped out, “I did.”

“You did!” and Prescott turned to him. “How did you happen to do so?”

“He rang, and I went up there, and he gave me a letter to mail for
him. It was a wide letter, too wide to go in the chute.”

“Did you mail it?”

“I put it with the stuff for the postman to take. He hasn’t been round
yet.”

“Get the letter.”

The bellhop did so, while the others looked on.

It was a large, square envelope addressed to a business firm downtown.

“Your writing, Mr Pollard?” said Prescott, not knowing, in fact, just
what to say.

“Yes,” said Pollard, glancing at it. “Open it, if you want to. It’s
not private business.”

“No; I don’t want to. It looks very much as if you were in your room
during the hour between six and seven.”

“It does have that appearance,” said Pollard, “but I make no claims.”

“He telephoned twice,” vouchsafed the girl at the switchboard.

“He did!” Prescott wheeled on her.

“Once not very long after he came in—maybe fifteen or twenty minutes
after.”

“To whom?”

“To a Cleaning Establishment. I remember, because I couldn’t get
them—the shop was closed. And then, he telephoned again for a taxi,
when he was ready to go out.”

“At what time?”

“About half-past seven—or maybe a little earlier.”

“Earlier,” said the doorman, who had drawn near again. “Not more’n
twenty past. I put him in the taxi myself. And it wasn’t as late as
half past.”

“Where did he drive to?”

“I don’t know. He ’most always gives the driver a slip of paper with
the numbers on it—’specially if he’s going to more than one address.
He did this tonight.”

“Where’s that taxi man?” asked Prescott, feeling his last prop being
pulled from under him.

“He’s outside now,” said the doorman. “He’s waiting for a man
upstairs.”

“Call him in.”

The taxi driver looked at Pollard, nodded respectfully, and replied to
Prescott’s queries by saying that Mr Pollard did give him a memorandum
of the places he wanted to go to, and that they were, first, the Hotel
Astor, where he went in for a moment, and came back with some theater
tickets which he was putting in his pocket.

“How do you know he had theater tickets?”

“Well, he had a little pink envelope, and he often does get tickets
there. Next, he stopped at Bard’s, the Florist’s, and brought out a
small square box with him, and next I took him up to a house on Park
Avenue, and he stayed there, and I came back.”

“All right, Mr Pollard, my duty is done.” The detective looked a
respectful apology. “But I had to find out all this. And remember you
did make a surprising statement.”

“Surprising to you, perhaps. But my friends, who know my
eccentricities, weren’t surprised at it.”

“No? Well, if it’s your habit to threaten to kill people you don’t
like——”

“I’d rather you didn’t call it a threat. To my mind, a threat is
spoken to the intended victim.”

“I don’t know,” Prescott gazed thoughtfully at the speaker. “Can’t you
threaten——”

“But I didn’t threaten. I merely said I should kill Gleason some day.
It’s too late, now, to make good my promise, and you’ve satisfied
yourself—or, haven’t you?—that I didn’t do it?”

“Yes, I’m satisfied. You couldn’t be here at home and in a taxicab
doing errands, between six-fifteen and seven-forty-five, and have any
chance to get away long enough to get yourself down to Washington
Square and do up that murder business, too.”

“It does look that way,” Pollard agreed. “You’ve checked me up pretty
thoroughly. Now do you want me any further? For, though I’m as
good-natured and patient as the average man, I _have_ something
else to do with my time when you’re through with me.”

“Of course, of course. But, I say, Mr Pollard, can you give me a hint
which way to look?”

“Sorry, but I can’t.”

The two had drawn aside from the hotel desk, and were by themselves in
an alcove of the lobby. Prescott, eagerly trying to learn something
further from his vindicated suspect—Pollard, calm and polite, but
quite evidently wishing to get away about his business.

“You don’t suspect anybody?”

“No; you see I knew Mr Gleason but slightly. I didn’t like him, but I
assure you I didn’t kill him. And I don’t know who did.”




CHAPTER V

Mrs Mansfield’s Story


“Distrust the obvious, Prescott,” said Belknap, didactically. “It is
the astute detective’s weak point that he cannot see beyond the
apparent—the evident—the obvious.”

“Oh, yes,” Prescott sniffed; “distrust the obvious is as hackneyed a
phrase as _Cherchez la femme!_ and about as useful in our every
day work. You make a noise like a Detective Story.”

“And they’re the Big Noise, nowadays,” Belknap returned, unruffled.

“All the same,” and Prescott spoke doggedly, “when a guy says he’s
going to kill somebody, and that somebody is found croaked a few hours
later, seems to me——”

“Seems to me, your guy is the last person in the world to suspect.
It’s the obvious——”

“Yes, an obvious that I sorta hate to distrust!”

“Nonsense! And you’ve disposed of Pollard anyway, haven’t you.”

“Yes, I have. Half a dozen people were in touch with him all through
the time of the murder. He’s out of it.”

Prescott looked as disheartened as he felt.

“And you’ve wasted good time tracking him down, when you might have
been investigating the evidence while it was fresh! I’m disappointed
in you, Prescott; you oughtn’t to have fallen for a steer like that.”

Belknap was the Assistant District Attorney, and the Gleason case
seemed to him important and absorbing. In his office the morning after
the murder, he was getting all the information Prescott could give
him, and he was really disgusted with the detective for having
followed up the wild goose chase of Manning Pollard’s impulsive speech
about the Western millionaire.

Belknap was an earnest, honest investigator, not so much brilliant by
deduction as clear-sighted, hard-headed and practical.

He distrusted the obvious, not so much because of the hackneyed
aphorism as because his own experience had proved to him that nine
times out of ten, or oftener, the obvious was wrong. It must be looked
into, of course, but not to the exclusion of other evidence or the
neglect of other lines of investigation. And now, he felt, the trail
had cooled somewhat, and valuable clews might be lost because of
Prescott’s conviction of Pollard’s guilt.

Belknap was of a higher mentality than Pollard, and he also was a man
of more education and refinement. He was especially interested on this
case, for the Lindsays were an exclusive family and kept themselves
out of the limelight of publicity.

But there were rumors that the lovely daughter was a harum-scarum,
that the son of the house was addicted to bright lights and high
stakes, and that the still young stepmother was quite as fond of
social life as her two charges.

But never were their names seen on the society columns or in the
gossip papers and now, Belknap reflected, they could be approached by
reporters.

Indeed, he saw himself admitted to that hitherto inaccessible home,
and in imagination he was already preening himself for the occasion.

But Belknap was methodical, and he was preparing to go at once to the
Gleason apartment, to begin his line of investigation.

“How does Mrs Lindsay act?” he allowed himself to ask as he and
Prescott started for Washington Square.

“Oh, I don’t know,” returned Prescott; “about like you’d expect a
sister to act. She was fond of her brother, I take it, but—well, I
didn’t see much of her; still, I’ve a vague impression that she’s
revengeful—anxious to find and punish the murderer—that struck me
more than her grief.”

“You can’t tell. She may be sorrowing deeply, and also be desirous of
avenging her brother’s death. No question of suicide?”

“Not now, no. There was at first. But an autopsy showed the second
shot was fired first.”

“What do you mean?”

“The one they thought was second was first. It seems the first
shot—through the temple—killed Gleason. And then, for some
unexplained reason, the slayer fired again, through the dead man’s
shoulder.”

“Whatever for? And how do they know?”

“Oh, the doctors could tell, by the blood coagulation or something. As
to why it was done, I’ve no idea. What’s the obvious—I want to
distrust it.”

“Don’t be too funny, Prescott. This is a big case. Not only because of
the prominence of the people involved, but it’s pretty mysterious, I
think. We ought to get something out of the other people in the
house.”

“Not a chance. I tried it.”

Belknap said nothing, but a close observer might have thought his
silence not altogether an assent to Prescott’s corollary.

“In fact,” Prescott went on, “I believe you’ll find your murderer
among Gleason’s own bunch. Not the people in the house he lived in.
You see that place was wished on him by a friend, and Gleason hated
it. I got this from those men who know him. Miss Lindsay agreed to it.
Gleason meant to move out—only took it because it was represented to
him as a bijou apartment, and he thought it was a luxurious little
nest—and, it isn’t. As you can now see for yourself.”

At the house, Prescott pushed the button below McIlvaine’s card, and
after a moment the door clicked, and grudgingly, as it seemed, moved
itself a little, and Prescott pushed it open.

“That’s the way the murderer got in,” he said positively.

“Maybe not,” demurred Belknap. “Maybe he came in with Gleason.”

“Oh, maybe he came in at the window, or down the chimney!” exclaimed
Prescott shortly; “you can’t admit the obvious ever, can you?”

Belknap chuckled at the other’s quick temper, and they went upstairs.

They found Policeman Kelly in charge, and he greeted them gladly.

“Get busy,” he said, genially. “Sure, there’s enough to engage your
attention.”

Belknap, beyond a word of greeting, ignored the officer, and took a
swift, comprehensive survey of the place.

It was a large front room, apparently library and cutting room. A
bedroom was back of it and a bath room behind that. An old house,
quite evidently remodeled for bachelor or small family apartments.

Though up to date as to plumbing, lighting and decoration, the window
and door frames proclaimed it an old building. The furniture was over
ornate, and the pictures and ornaments a bit flamboyant. But it was a
comfortable enough place, and the personal belongings of the dead
Gleason were scattered about and gave a homey appearance. A silver
framed photograph of Mrs Lindsay was on a table, and on another were
two more portraits of less distinguished-looking ladies.

“That’s Ivy Hayes, the movie star,” Kelly said, as Belknap looked at
one picture.

“I know it,” the attorney said, so shortly that Kelly lapsed into
silence.

“Nothing been disturbed?” Belknap asked presently, and receiving a
negative answer went on observing.

Kelly winked at Prescott, with an expression that said, “I like ’em
more sociable, myself!” and Prescott nodded acquiescence.

But at last Belknap began to talk.

“Dressing for dinner, they tell me,” he said.

“Yes,” said Prescott, eagerly, “I was here right away, quick, you
know. They took the body to the Funeral Rooms, early this morning. But
he was in his shirt sleeves—day shirt——”

“Yes, here are all his evening clothes on the bed in the next room.
Was he going to the Lindsay dinner?”

“Yes, he was. I believe he said it was to be the occasion of the
announcement of his engagement to Miss Lindsay——”

“Does she say that?”

“She does not! She denies it.”

“Then you’d better keep still. You have no gumption, Prescott. Don’t
you see you mustn’t say those things?”

“Oh, bother! let up on knocking me, and get down to business. Don’t
touch the telephone or revolver. I’ve had them photographed for
fingerprints.”

“Yes, that’s good.” Belknap was getting more genial. “Anybody been
through his papers?”

“No; Lane is his lawyer, Fred Lane. He’s coming here to-day to look
over them.”

“All right.” Belknap was already absorbed in the loose papers
scattered on the desk. “Several notes from ladies.”

“Yes, I noticed them. Old Gleason had a few friends in the chorus, I
judge. But, unless they have any bearing on the case, there’s no call
to exploit ’em, eh?”

“No, of course not. Nor any reason to mention them to the Lindsays.”

“They’ll know all there is to know. You can’t fool ’em. Miss Phyllis
is as wide-awake as they come, and the Mrs is nobody’s fool. The boy,
I don’t think much of. Say, aren’t you going up there? Don’t you want
to see them?”

“Later, yes. But me for the other tenants here, first. Here’s where
Gleason lay, was it? Near the telephone table—look here, if the first
shot did for him, how could he telephone to the doctor that he was
wounded?”

“Oh, I don’t know! I don’t believe that dope about the doctors knowing
which shot came first. And, as you say, it couldn’t have been the
fatal one first, or how could he have phoned? Anyway he could only
have called the doctor if it was a suicide. You don’t think, do you,
that the murderer would stand by and let him call up!”

“Scarcely. That’s why I haven’t given up the idea that it was a
suicide.”

“Never mind, Oscar, you will. Why, that man was too happy to kill
himself. His friends all say so. No, he was shot, all right, but the
two shots make a mystery that I can’t get yet.”

Belknap frowned deeply, and thought for a few moments.

“Great mistake,” he said at last, “to reason from insufficient data.”

“Another of your ‘familiar quotations,’” chaffed Prescott.

“Another good rule,” retorted the attorney, and went out in the hall.

Prescott followed and together they went to the Mansfields’ apartment.

“We’ve been thinking it over,” Mrs Mansfield said, after she had
admitted her callers and taken them to her living room, “and my
husband and I feel we ought to tell all we know.”

“You certainly ought to,” Belknap assured her.

“Well,” the blonde head nodded mysteriously, “that man, Gleason, he
was a gay old bird.”

“Just what do you mean, Mrs Mansfield? Speak plainly,” adjured
Belknap.

“Oh, well,” she shrugged her shoulders pettishly, for she was the sort
of woman who loved innuendo better than statement. “I don’t know the
girls, of course, I’m not in that class of society, but he did have
gay looking girls coming to his apartment now and then.”

“Every day?” Belknap looked at her sharply.

“Oh, my land, no, not every day. Just now and then?”

“Every other day?”

“No,” pettishly.

“Maybe once a week?”

“Maybe.”

“Maybe, you saw one, once——”

Mrs Mansfield laughed out.

“That’s it, Mr Belknap,” she said. “How you do pin me down. Well, all
I can swear to is one time I did see a fly little piece of baggage go
in at his door.”

“Day or night?”

“Daytime.” Mrs Mansfield spoke aggrievedly, as if all the zest had
been taken out of her news.

“Humph! And she might have been his lawyer’s stenographer, with an
important paper.”

“She might not!” Mrs Mansfield declined to lose her last shred of
excitement. “Stenographers are flippy enough, Lord knows! But this
little snipjack, now, she was a real little vamp!”

“You don’t know her?”

“My land! I guess I don’t! I’m a respectable married woman——”

“And probably she is a respectable unmarried woman——”

“Coming to see a man in his apartment?”

“Well, until we know the circumstances we can’t judge her. I say,
Prescott, get that photograph, will you. You know, the——”

“I know,” and Prescott went back across the hall. He returned with the
picture of the girl Kelly had called Ivy Hayes.

“This the lady?”

“That’s the one,” said Mrs Mansfield, drawing away from it, “but
she’s no lady.”

“Oh, come, now, you don’t know her. She’s a little moving picture
actress. She may have had business with Mr Gleason.”

“She may have!” and the disdainful lady sniffed. “But it’s none of
_my_ business, and I don’t care to discuss her.”

“You say you saw her go in there, yesterday?”

“Good land, no! I didn’t say yesterday! I said, one day.”

“All right, I’m glad you told us about it. It might mean something and
it might not.”

“Of course, it means something!” Mrs Mansfield didn’t want her news
scorned as naught. “An actress calling on a man like that—of course
it means something!”

“If it does we’ll find it out,” Belknap said. “You don’t think this
little thing shot Gleason, do you?”

“I don’t know why she couldn’t. Little women have done such deeds.”

“So they have. Now, you’ve nothing more to tell us?”

But though Mrs Mansfield said quite a bit more, she had really nothing
more to tell them that they wanted to hear, and they got away, though
with some difficulty, for the lady was of a garrulous type.

To the floor above Belknap went, Prescott returning to the Gleason
rooms to look about.

The apartment above McIlvaine’s was occupied by a spinster named Adams
who was, as the attorney deduced, from New England.

This good lady was even more disgusted than Mrs Mansfield with the
whole matter of Gleason, his life and death. More especially the last
for, it seemed to her, no one had a right to die a violent death under
the same roof with refined and conservative people.

“Why, he was a loud-voiced man,” declared Miss Adams, as if
pronouncing the last and worst word of opprobrium.

“Ah, you heard him from up here?”

“Sometimes, yes. He had chums visit him, and they would laugh and talk
so loudly, I couldn’t help hearing them.”

“Could you distinguish what they said?”

“No; not words. But I could hear well enough to know whether he was
merry or angry—for, I assure you, sometimes he was the latter.”

“Did you hear anything from that apartment yesterday?”

“Oh, yes, I heard the two shots.”

“You did! What did you do?”

“Nothing. What should I do? As a matter of fact I didn’t think they
were shots. I thought them tire explosions or some noise in the
street. But after I knew about the murder, I realized that I had heard
the fatal shot.”

“Yet you said nothing to anybody?”

“Man alive, what could I say? I had nothing to do with Mr Gleason or
his murder——”

“But your duty as a citizen——”

“Look here, what do you mean? Where was any duty? You people—you
police people knew the shots were fired, didn’t you? Then why should I
inform anybody that they were? And that’s all I knew—or know about
them. They were fired. I heard them. No more.”

The sharp-featured, sharp-tongued old maid sat bolt upright in her
chair, and glared at Belknap. Her hair was drawn up in a tight knot,
after the fashion of New England spinsters, and Belknap wondered what
it was about her appearance that seemed so strange.

Then he realized it was her exposed ears! He had not seen a woman with
bared ears for so long that it looked most peculiar to him.

For the rest, Miss Adams was angular, even gaunt, and apparently of a
decided and forceful nature. And her testimony might be valuable.

“Your knowledge is of importance,” he said, gravely. “To be sure we
know the shots were fired, but a witness is always of interest. What
time was it that you heard the shots?”

“I’ve no idea,” she returned, carelessly. “Oh, I know, in the story
books, the witness always knows, because he was just going to keep an
engagement—or, setting his watch, or something. But I don’t know at
all.”

“You are quite conversant with detective stories, though!”

“Yes. I read them, since they’re getting so popular. Anything more you
want to ask?”

“Yes, please. I want to try to fix the time of those shots.”

“And I tell you I can’t do it. Look here, did you meet any one you
know, on the street yesterday afternoon?”

“Why, yes, I did—I met two or three.”

“All right. Mention one.”

“Well—a Mr Hartley.”

“All right, what time did you meet him?”

“I don’t know exactly——”

“About?”

“Oh, about half-past four or five—no, it was later——”

“There!” triumphantly. “It is not easy to state the time, when you
paid no special attention to the occurrence.”

“You’ve proved your point, Miss Adams!” Belknap exclaimed, looking at
her with new interest. “I wish you _had_ noted the time—you
would have done so accurately.”

“Yes, I should have. But I didn’t. Now, when I tell you that’s all I
know about the whole matter, will you go away and leave me in peace?”

“No; Miss Adams, I won’t!”

“Why not?” and to Belknap’s satisfaction she turned a shade paler.

“Because, I am sure you do know more. You are too cute to be so
ignorant. Your smartness has overreached itself. You’re trying to
disarm me by the appearance of absolute frankness, and you almost did
so—but—I’ve—well, I’ve got a hunch that you know something else.”

“I swear I don’t,” and Miss Adams set her thin lips in a tight,
straight line. “You go away.”

“I’m going, I’ve much to do. But I warn you I shall return. You know
something, Miss Adams, something of importance, but I do not think you
are yourself implicated. Moreover, what you know frightens you a
little, and you don’t want to tell it. Now, if I can get all the
information I want, without yours, well and good. If not, I shall come
back for yours. And don’t try running away—for you won’t get far!”

“Are—are you going to have me watched!” she gasped.

“No—not quite that. But if you attempt flight, we may have to follow
you.”

As a matter of fact, the astute Belknap had sized up the old maid
pretty carefully, and was convinced that what little she knew was
unimportant to him, though it doubtless seemed vital to her. Also, he
had no time just now, to persuade or wheedle her, and he feared
frightening her would do little good. So, he concluded to wait and see
what else he could find out, before seeing her again. A woman on the
floor above could easily know something definite, yet somehow Miss
Adams did not impress him as doing so.

He went downstairs, and looking in the door, said, “Come on, Prescott,
let’s go up to the Lindsays’ and start out right.”

“All right. Wait a minute, come in here, will you? We’ve got word from
the photographer, and there are no fingerprints on the revolver or on
the telephone except Gleason’s own.”

“What! Suicide? No, not possible, if the fatal shot was fired first.”

“It was. I just called up Doctor Davenport, and he hedged at first,
but then he acknowledged it was true. The shot in the shoulder was
fired after the man was already dead. Now, what do you make of that!
Why, in heaven’s name shoot a dead man?”

Belknap looked thoughtful. “It’s a deep game somebody’s playing,” he
said. “We’ve got our work cut out for us. Come along, let’s get busy.
Guard everything mighty carefully, Kelly. Don’t let anybody in, but
people who belong. Our criminal is a slick one, and no obvious
measures go, this time. No fingerprints! Some expert, that murderer!”




CHAPTER VI

The Fur Collar


Prescott, absorbed in the fingerprint matter, went off to see about
it, leaving Belknap to take up the trail alone.

The attorney concluded to go first to Pollard’s, and note for himself
the attitude of the man who had threatened Gleason’s life.

He found Manning Pollard in his rooms at the little hotel, and was
greeted with courtesy, though with no great cordiality.

“Come in, Mr Belknap,” Pollard said, “I can give you a short
interview, but I’ve a piece of important work on hand.”

“I’ll stay only a few minutes,” the other said, ingratiatingly, “but
I’d like your help. I know all about that remark of yours concerning
your dislike of Mr Gleason. That’s past history—though I may say it
will become famous.”

“But why?” broke in Pollard, frowning a little. “You must admit there
are lots of people who feel like that——”

“I know, but they don’t put it into words. Just as there are lots of
people who would steal if they were sure they’d not be caught. But
they don’t, as a rule, advertise this.”

“All right, go ahead. You don’t suspect me of the murder?”

Pollard’s frank glance seemed to compel an honest reply, and Belknap
said, “I don’t—but only because it has been proved that it was
impossible for you to have been in the vicinity of Gleason’s place at
that time.”

“You couldn’t have much more positive proof, I suppose,” and Pollard
smiled. “All right, then, what can I do for you?”

“Tell me whom you suspect.” Belknap shot out the words, in an effort
to catch Pollard off his guard, for it was the attorney’s belief that
the clubman knew more of the matter than he had told.

“You give me a difficult question, Mr Belknap,” Pollard said, in a
serious tone. “I daresay everybody has vague suspicions floating
through his brain, but to put them in words is—well, might it not
start inquiry in a wrong direction and do ultimate harm?”

“It might, if spoken to the public, but to the investigators of the
case, I think it is your duty to tell all you know.”

“Oh, I don’t _know_ anything. Not anything. I assure you. But if
I were to express an opinion or make a surmise, I should say look for
some incident in Mr Gleason’s private life. I know enough of his
character and temperament to feel sure that he had friends among
people outside the social pale, and it seems to me there’s the
direction in which to look. It’s really no secret that Mr Gleason
entertained the sort of young ladies who are usually classed under the
general title of ‘chorus girls’ whether they are in the chorus or not.
Look that way, I imagine, and you will, at least, find food for
thought.”

“You don’t know of any particular girl in whom he was interested?”

Pollard stared at him. “I do not. I knew Mr Gleason but slightly. I
know nothing of his private affairs, and, as I told you, even the
surmise I made is based merely on the man’s general characteristics. I
have heard him refer to the girls I spoke of, but only in general
conversation, and seldom at that. Please understand, I was not only no
friend of Robert Gleason, but scarcely an acquaintance. I never met
him more than three or four times.”

“Yet you took a positive dislike to him.”

“I did. I frequently take dislikes at first sight. Or, I am attracted
at first sight. Mine is not a unique nature, Mr Belknap. Many people
like or dislike a stranger at first meeting.”

“But they don’t threaten to kill them.”

Pollard reached the end of his patience. “Mr Belknap,” he said, “I’m
tired of having that remark of mine quoted at me. If it had not
chanced that Gleason was killed yesterday, that speech would never
have been remembered. I do not deny the remark; I do not deny that it
was spoken in earnest. But I do deny that I killed Robert Gleason.
Now, if you still suspect me, go to work and bring the crime home to
me, if not, let up on your insinuations!”

“All right, I will. I don’t believe for a minute that you had a hand
in it—but I hoped you knew something more definite than you’ve told
me. And, maybe you do. If for instance, you had suspicion of any
friend of yours, or an acquaintance, you would, doubtless, try to
throw me off the track, and point my attention to Mr Gleason’s little
lady friends.”

Pollard looked at his visitor with fresh interest. “You’re cleverer
than I thought,” he said, frankly. “I don’t mind telling you that if I
did suspect a friend, the first thing I should do, would be to try to
throw the police off his track.”

“Have you no sense of justice—or duty to the state?”

“Quite as much as most people, only I don’t pretend to more than I
have—as most people do. Nine men out of ten would protect a friend,
only they wouldn’t be so open-mouthed about it.”

“That’s so; and in a way I’m glad you are so frank. Now, if I come to
suspect any friend of yours, I shall return to you and get some
information—from the things you _don’t_ say!”

“Good for you, Mr Belknap. I like your shrewdness. And, truly, if the
time comes when I can help, without running a friend’s head into the
noose, I’ll do it.”

“And now, I’m going up to the Lindsay house.”

“I believe I’ll go with you. I may be of some help to them.”

“I thought you were so terribly busy!”

Pollard smiled. “I am. But, my business is a movable feast. I’m a
writer, you know.”

“Yes, I know your two books.”

“And I’m just getting out another. I write essays for the magazines,
and when I get enough, I bunch ’em up and call it a book.”

“And the reviewers call it a good book,” Belknap complimented.

“Some of them do. But, I’m my own master—if I neglect my work it
hurts no one but myself, and nothing but my own bank account. And so,
I’ll give up doing a bit of writing I planned for this morning, and go
up to the Lindsays’ with you. If I can do anything for them, in any
way, I’ll be glad.”

The Lindsay apartment wore the air common to homes where death has
entered, yet not to one of the actual household. The shades were
partly drawn and a few shaded lamps were lighted. A silent maid
admitted the callers and they were shown into the living room where a
group of people sat.

The three Lindsays were there, also Doctor Davenport, who had been
prescribing for Mrs Lindsay.

“You’re all right,” he was telling her, “just keep quiet and——”

“But, Doctor,” her shrill voice responded, “how can I keep quiet, when
I’m so excited? My nerves are on edge—I’m frightened—I can’t sleep
or eat or rest——”

“The medicine I prescribed will help all that; now, just obey my
orders and do the best you can to keep cool and calm.”

“Let me help you,” and Manning Pollard took the seat next Millicent;
“sometimes the mere presence of an unexcitable person helps frazzled
nerves.”

“You’re surely that,” and Mrs Lindsay smiled a welcome. “I never saw
any one less excitable than you are. Do help to calm me.”

She laid her hand in Pollard’s and sank back in her chair, already
quieted by his silent sympathy.

“Wait a minute, Doctor,” Belknap said, as Davenport was about to
leave. “I’m asking a few questions, and I want you to tell me as to
those two shots that killed Mr Gleason. You don’t mind being present,
Mrs Lindsay?”

“Indeed, no. I want to be. I want to know every bit of evidence, every
clew to the murderer of my brother! I am not excited over the
investigation, I only get nervous when I think you will not avenge the
crime!”

“We’re trying our best,” returned Belknap. “What is your theory,
Doctor Davenport?”

“I haven’t any,” and the doctor looked slightly embarrassed.

“Well,” Belknap thought to himself, “all these people act queer! Are
they all shielding the same person? Is it the precious son of the
house?”

“I don’t believe in laymen having theories,” Davenport went on. “Those
are for the police to form and then to prove.” He spoke shortly, but
in an even time, as one who was sure of what he wanted to say.

“All right,” agreed Belknap, “and to form and prove our theories, we
must get all the evidence we can. Now, Doctor, as to those shots.”

The doctor became all the professional man again. “There’s no doubt as
to the facts,” he replied, straightforwardly; “the fatal shot was most
certainly fired first, and the shot in the shoulder some minutes
later—after the man had been dead at least several minutes.”

“How do you, then, explain Mr Gleason’s ability to telephone a message
that he was shot?”

“I don’t explain it—nor can I conceive of any explanation. It’s the
strangest thing I ever heard of!”

“It is strange,” Belknap mused, “but there must be some explanation.
For he did telephone. Your nurse took the message?”

“She did. And she is a most reliable woman. Whatever she reported as
to that message, you may depend on as absolute truth. Nurse Jordan has
been with me many years, and she is most punctilious in the repetition
of messages.”

“Mightn’t he have telephoned after the first shot,” Pollard said, his
air more that of one thinking aloud, than of one propounding a theory,
“and then with a spasmodic gesture or something, have fired the second
shot by accident?”

“The second shot was fired after the man was dead,” repeated Doctor
Davenport, positively.

“Then there was a murderer,” Belknap said, “which fact we have decided
upon anyway. And an unusually clever murderer, too.”

“But I can’t see it,” Millicent Lindsay said, speaking in a low
moaning voice. “Why would anybody shoot my brother after he had
already killed him? I can’t see any theory that would explain that.”

“Nor I,” declared the doctor. “It’s the queerest thing I ever knew.”

“Leave that point for the moment,” Belknap advised, “if we get other
facts they may throw light on that. Do any of you think that Mr
Gleason,” he glanced furtively at Mrs Lindsay to see if he might go
on, “was acquainted with—with young ladies——”

“Not in our set?” cried Louis; “he most assuredly was. Now you’re
getting on the right tack! You don’t mind this talk, Millicent?”

“No; go on,” returned Mrs Lindsay. “I want to know the truth. And, of
course, my brother was no saint. Moreover, if he chose to entertain
chorus girls or that sort of people he had a perfect right to do so.
I’m not surprised or shocked at anything of that kind. But if they
were in any way responsible for his death, I want to know it. Do you
know anything definite, Louis?”

“No,” was the reply, but the youth went white.

Belknap studied his face, feeling sure that to go white was not
absolutely unusual with the young man. He was apparently anaemic,
unstrung, and very emotional. His lips twitched, and he curled and
uncurled his fingers.

As a matter of fact, Belknap was looking toward Louis as a possible
suspect. Though, as yet, he had no reason for such a suspicion.

“I do,” said Phyllis Lindsay, speaking for the first time during this
discussion. “I know he was intimate with some moving picture
actresses. He had their photographs in his rooms.”

“When were you there last?” asked Belknap suddenly.

“I don’t know—about a week ago, I think. I called in one day to see a
new picture Mr Gleason had just bought.”

Her face was slightly flushed, but she was cool and composed of
manner. Belknap despaired of getting any real information here.

Doctor Davenport looked at Phyllis.

“Did you leave anything there?” he asked abruptly.

“Leave anything?” she repeated.

“Yes,” impatiently. “Any of your belongings—wearing apparel?”

“Why, no,” the girl smiled. “I didn’t.”

“Sure?”

“Of course, I’m sure. Unless I dropped a handkerchief, maybe. I’m
forever losing those.”

“You didn’t leave a fur collar?”

“Of course I didn’t! My fur collars are too valuable not to keep track
of.”

“Then,” and Doctor Davenport drew from his bag a small fur neckpiece.
“Then, I guess it’s my duty to show up this. It’s a thing,” he looked
a bit embarrassed, “I picked up in Gleason’s room when I first went
there last night. I thought it was yours, Phyllis, and I brought it to
you.”

“Well, of all performances!” exclaimed Belknap, astonished.

“Oh, come now,” and Davenport smiled, “I meant to give it up sooner,
but I forgot it. I only thought, if it should be Phyllis’, she’d
rather know about it——”

“All right, as long as I have it now,” and Belknap reached for the fur
with an air of authority. “This may be the clew that will lead us
straight to the murderer—or murderess.”

“It may,” agreed the doctor, “and it may set you off on the wrong
track, hounding some poor little innocent girl!”

“Is it a valuable piece?” and Belknap held it out toward Phyllis.

“I don’t want to touch it,” she shrank back. “Please don’t make me.”

“Let me see it,” said Millicent reaching out a hand. “I’ll soon tell
you.”

After a moment’s scrutiny she said, “It’s a fairly good fur, and it’s
the latest style; what they call a choker. It’s new this season, but
not worth more than thirty or forty dollars.”

“It might belong to ’most anybody, then,” mused Belknap.

“Yes,” said Millicent, “but you see by the label inside, it came from
a shop patronized more by bargain hunters than by an exclusive class
of customers.”

“Pointing to the less aristocratic type,” Belknap nodded. “Well, we
must trace the owner of the collar. Where was it, Doctor?”

“In a chair in the room,” said Davenport, looking as sheepish as a
censured schoolboy. “I was a fool I suppose, to take it, but I thought
if it belonged to Miss Lindsay, it might lead to a lot of unpleasant
notoriety for her——”

“All right, all right,” Belknap shut off his apologies. “Now to find
an owner for the fur. Any suggestions?”

He looked around the group, with a general survey, but really scanning
Louis’ face, in hopes the boy might show some sign of recognition.

But it was from Pollard that the advice came, “Advertise.”

“Just what I planned to do,” Belknap said: “I’ll take the fur and
advertise for its owner. An adroitly worded advertisement ought to
bring results.”

There was little more conversation of importance, the attorney merely
taking some notes of certain data he desired, and learning of the
arrangements for the funeral which was to take place next day at the
Funeral Rooms.

“I probably shan’t see you again, Mrs Lindsay, until after I hear from
the advertisement,” Belknap told her.

“Oh, come to see me whenever you have any fresh evidence or any news,”
she urged him. “After the funeral, may be too late. Follow up all
trails—spare no effort. I may be a peculiar person, Mr Belknap, but I
can’t help it. I never thought I was of a revengeful nature, but I
think it is a righteous indignation that I have now. And I will do
anything, spend any amount to find the murderer of my brother.”

“You are his heir?” Belknap asked, casually.

“I have not inquired into that as yet,” was the reply, spoken rather
coldly. “I don’t even know whether my brother left a will or not. Mr
Lane is his lawyer.”

“My question was not prompted by idle curiosity,” Belknap assured her,
“but it is of importance to know who will benefit financially by the
death of this rich man.”

“If he left no will,” Mrs Lindsay informed him, “I am the only heir.
If he left a will, I’ve no idea as to its contents.”

“I must inquire of Lane, then; though doubtless he will see you on the
matter very soon.”

Belknap departed and first thing he did was to put an advertisement in
the Lost and Found columns of several evening papers.

And the next afternoon his zeal was rewarded.

He had instructed the owner of the collar to call at a small shop on a
side street, which had no apparent connection with Mr Robert Gleason
or his affairs.

By arrangement with the proprietor, Belknap himself was behind the
counter and greeted the sweetly smiling young woman who came for the
fur.

“Are you sure it’s yours?” Belknap asked the fashionably dressed
little person.

“No; are you?” she replied, saucily. “But I can describe mine.”

“Go ahead, then.”

“It’s a soft, gray fur, squirrel it’s called. And it has _a_
label inside with the name of the store where it was bought.”

“Yes? And the store is——?”

“Cheapman’s Department Store.” She smiled triumphantly. “Guess you’ll
have to give up the goods!”

“It looks that way,” Belknap smiled. “Now where did you lose it?”

“Haven’t the least idea. Somewhere between starting out from home and
getting back there.”

“Day before yesterday?”

“Yep. I went to a whole lot of places——”

“Mention some. You see, the store you speak of sells a good many fur
collars, so it all depends on where you left yours.”

The girl’s face fell. “Oh, come now,” she said, “s’pose I don’t want
to tell?”

“Then I shall think you’re putting up a game on me, and trying to get
a fur collar that doesn’t belong to you.”

“Oh, well, it doesn’t. But it does belong to a friend of mine—and I’m
after it for her.”

“And she doesn’t want to admit where she lost it?”

“I don’t know why she wouldn’t. But you see, I don’t know all the
places she went to, and——”

“Look here, Miss—you’ll have to give your name, you know.”

By this time the girl looked decidedly frightened. “I don’t want to,”
she said, almost crying. “Let the old fur go—I don’t want it! I wish
I’d kept out of this!”

“Tell me who sent you here, and you can keep out of it.”

The girl brightened decidedly, and looked at Belknap.

“Honest,” she said; “if I tell you who sent me, can I go home?”

“Certainly you may. I’ve no right to detain you.”

“All right, then, it was Mary Morton.”

“Address?”

She gave a street number in the Longacre district, and hurried away
almost before Belknap finished writing it down.

Thanking and remunerating the shopkeeper for the use of his premises,
Belknap went directly to the address he had obtained.

“Like as not she’ll be out,” he thought, “but if she is, I’ll go
again. I’ll bet it’s one of Gleason’s lady friends, and though I’ve no
idea she shot him—yet, she might have. Anyway, I’ll get a line on his
gay acquaintances. It’s bound to be the owner of the collar, for her
friend described it exactly, and gave the right maker’s name.”

Reaching the address given him, Belknap felt a sudden qualm of
suspicion. It did not look at all like a boarding house, theatrical or
any other kind. In fact it was a shop where electrical goods were
sold.

“Upstairs, I s’pose,” Gleason mused, and went in.

But nobody at that number could tell him anything of Miss Mary Morton.
No one had ever heard of her, and Belknap was confronted with the
sudden conviction that he had been made a fool of!

“Idiot! Dunderhead!” he called himself, angrily, as he left the place.
“I am an ass, I declare! That little snip jack took me in completely,
with her honest gray eyes! Well, let me see; I’ve a start. That girl
described that fur too accurately not to be the owner herself, and
I’ll track her down again yet. It can’t be a hard job. I’ll see her
picture in some theatrical office or somewhere.”

But it was a hard blow, and Belknap felt pretty sore at Prescott’s
jeers when he learned the story.

“Anyway, it’s given us a way to turn,” said Belknap. “We’ve got the
fur.”

“Yes,” grinned Prescott, wickedly, “we’ve got the fur, and that’s as
fur as we have got!”




CHAPTER VII

Barry’s Suspect


After the funeral of Robert Gleason, Lane, his lawyer, went to the
Lindsay home, for the purpose of reading to the family the will of his
late client.

There was no one present except the three Lindsays and Doctor
Davenport. The physician was keeping watch over Millicent Lindsay, for
her volatile nature and nervous condition made him fear a breakdown.

But Millicent was quiet and composed, only an occasional quiver of her
lip or trembling of her fingers betrayed her agitation.

Phyllis’ eyes were bright with repressed excitement, but she, too,
preserved her poise.

Louis, however, was in a high state of nervous tension. He was jumpy
and erratic of speech and gesture, and again, he would relapse into a
sulky mood and become perversely silent.

The little party gathered in the library and Lane read the will of
Robert Gleason.

The terms were simple. Except for bequests to some personal friends
and some charities, the fortune was equally divided between Millicent,
his sister, and Phyllis, her stepdaughter.

No mention whatever was made of Louis, and the young man burst forth
into a torrent of angry invective.

“Hush, Louis,” Doctor Davenport said, sternly; “such talk can do you
no good, and it is a disgrace to yourself to speak so of the dead!”

“I don’t care,” Louis stormed, “why did he leave a lot to Phyllis, and
nothing to me? I’m no relative of his, but neither is Phyl!”

“But he was very much in love with Miss Lindsay,” Lane explained the
situation, “and as he had no expectation of this immediate death, he
hoped to make her his wife. But, he told me this when I drew up his
will—he provided for Miss Lindsay in case of premature death or
accident to himself. I feel sure he hoped to win Miss Lindsay’s
promise to be his wife—if he had not already done so.”

“He had not!” exclaimed Phyllis, but she looked thoughtful rather than
indignant at the idea.

“If he found that he could not do so,” Lane went on, “he planned to
change his will. It was, I think, tentative, and dependent on the
course of his wooing.”

“Never mind all that,” said Phyllis, speaking slowly and a little
hesitantly; “the will is valid and final, is it not?”

“Certainly,” returned Lane, but he gave her a searching glance.

“Then half the money is mine, and half Millicent’s,” Phyllis went on,
still with that thoughtful manner. “Don’t worry, Buddy, I’ll give you
part of my share.” She looked at her brother with fond affection.

“I suppose it’s all right,” Millicent said, her glance at Phyllis a
little resentful. “It would have been quite all right, if Phyllis had
meant to marry my brother—but she had no such intention!”

“You don’t know——” began the girl.

“I do know,” declared Millicent. “And what’s more, if you had any hand
in his murder——”

“Oh, hush!” cried Fred Lane, shocked even more at Millicent’s look
than at her words.

“I won’t hush! I’m going to find out who killed my brother! He was the
only human being whom I loved. These step-children mean nothing to
me—although we have always lived harmoniously enough. Now, if Phyllis
is innocent, that’s all there is about it. But her innocence must be
proved!”

Phyllis gave her stepmother a kindly, pitying glance.

“Now, Millicent,” she said, “you’re excited and nervous, and you don’t
know what you’re saying. Go and lie down, dear——”

“‘Go and lie down, dear!’” Millicent mocked her, eyes flashing and her
voice hard. “Yes, that’s just what you’d say, of course! You fear
investigation! No one would dream of suspecting you—unless they knew
what I know! and you say—‘go and lie down!’ Indeed, I _won’t_ go
and lie down! Now, look here, Phyllis Lindsay, you knew what was in
that will of my brother’s! I didn’t—but you did!”

“No, I didn’t, Millicent——”

“You did! You led my brother on—and on—letting him think you would
marry him—then, when he’d made a will in your favor, you killed him
to get the money! That’s what you did! And I’ll prove it—if it costs
me all my share of my poor brother’s fortune!”

She collapsed then, and sat, huddled in the big chair, shaking with
sobs.

Without a word, Doctor Davenport went to her, assisted her to rise,
and, summoning a maid to help him, took Millicent Lindsay away to her
own room.

“What ails her, anyway?” Louis growled, looking at Phyllis, curiously.

“Oh, she’s like that when she gets a tantrum,” the girl responded,
looking worried. “She’s really good friends with me, but if she takes
a notion she turns against me, and she can’t think of anything bad
enough to say to me.”

“I don’t like her present attitude,” Lane said, abruptly. “She may
make a lot of trouble for you, Miss Lindsay. _Did_ you know of
contents of the will?”

“No,” she returned, but she did not look at the lawyer. If, he mused,
she were telling an untruth, she would, doubtless, look just like
that.

“Are you sure?” he followed up.

“Of course, I’m sure!” she flung up her head and looked at him. Her
dark eyes were not flashing, but smoldering with a deep fire of
indignation. “How dare you question my statements!”

“Now, Phyl,” said her brother, “be careful what you say. Millicent has
it in her power to do you a bad turn, and she’s willing to do it if
she thinks you’re mixed up in her brother’s case. Do you know
_anything_ about it, old girl?”

Phyllis gave him a look of reproach, but he went on.

“Now don’t eat me up with your eyes, Sis. When I ask if you know
anything about the thing, I don’t mean did you kill Robert Gleason! Of
course, I know better than that! But—oh, well, don’t you think, Lane,
that Millicent can make trouble for us?”

“Us?” and the lawyer raised his eyebrows. “Where do you come in,
Lindsay?”

“Oh,” with an impatient shrug, “Phyl’s troubles are mine, of course.
And seems to me, Millicent has a very annoying bee in her bonnet.”

“Easy enough to settle the matter,” Lane said, briefly. “Where were
you, Miss Lindsay, when the—the tragedy took place?”

“Why, I don’t know,” Phyllis replied. “Here—at home—I think.”

But a sudden flood of scarlet suffused her face, and she was quite
evidently preserving her composure by a strong effort.

The small, slight figure, sitting in a tall-backed chair was a picture
of itself. Phyllis’ bright coloring, her deep, glowing eyes, scarlet
lips and rose-flushed cheeks were accented by the plain black gown she
wore and her graceful little hands moved eloquently as she talked, and
then fluttered to rest on the carved arms of the great chair.

“Sure?”

“Stop saying ‘sure?’ to me!” Phyllis spoke shortly, and then gave a
good-natured laugh. “Of course, I’m not sure, Mr Lane. I’ll have to
think back. I haven’t a—what do they call it—an alibi, but all the
same I didn’t kill——”

“Don’t say that,” Lane interrupted her, “nobody for a minute supposes
you killed anybody. Mrs Lindsay herself doesn’t. It’s hysteria that
makes her say so. But, she _can_ make trouble. And, so, I want
you to think carefully, and have your evidence ready. Where were you
last Tuesday at about half-past six or seven o’clock?”

Phyllis thought. “Here, I think,” she reiterated. “I was out—and I
came home and dressed for the dinner party.”

“What was the dinner hour?”

“Eight.”

“And you were dressing—how long?”

“Oh, I don’t know—an hour, probably.”

“That leaves some time yet to be accounted for. Where were you just
before you came home?”

“Look here, Mr Lane,” Phyllis’ eyes flashed now, “I won’t be quizzed
like that! If I’m suspected of a crime——”

“You aren’t,” Lane repeated, “but if Mrs Lindsay accuses you of a
crime, you must be prepared to defend yourself.”

“Wait till she does, then,” said Phyllis, curtly, and lapsed into
silence.

But Louis looked disturbed.

“What can Millicent do, Lane?” he asked. “She can’t make up any yarn
that will implicate my sister, can she?”

“Oh, no; probably not. All she can do, is to show that Miss Lindsay
knew what she would inherit, and, therefore, can be said to have a
motive for the——”

“Rot! As if Phyllis would shoot a man to get his money!” But Louis
Lindsay’s looks belied his words. While showing no doubt or distrust
of his sister, he had all the appearance of a man deeply anxious or
alarmed at his thoughts. “And, besides, Phyl knew nothing about the
will—did you, Sis?”

Phyllis looked at him without replying, for a moment, then she said,
“Hush, Louis; don’t keep up the subject. I’m going straight to
Millicent—and if she’s able to talk to me, I’ll find out what she
means.”

Phyllis left the room, and his business over, Lane went away from the
house.

As he walked along the street, he mused deeply on the matter.

Of course, Phyllis was in no way concerned in the crime—but Lane
couldn’t help thinking she knew something about it—or something
bearing on it. What could it be? How could that delicate, exclusive
girl be in any way mixed up with the deed done down in Washington
Square?

Lane made his way to the Club. He knew he’d find a lot of his friends
there at this hour, and he wanted to hear their talk.

He was not surprised to find a group of his intimates discussing the
Gleason case.

“Now the funeral’s over,” Dean Monroe was saying, “the detectives can
get busy, and do some real work.”

“They can get busy,” Manning Pollard agreed, “but can they do any real
work? I mean, any successful, decisive work?”

“You mean, discover the murderer,” Lane said, joining in the talk at
once, as he took his seat among them.

“Not a hard job, to my mind,” Dean Monroe said, slowing inhaling his
cigarette’s smoke. “_Cherchez la_ chorus girl.”

“Oh, I don’t know——” said Pollard.

“Well, I know!” Monroe came back quickly. “Oh, I don’t mean I
know—but who else could it have been? You may say Pollard, here,
because he announced his intention of killing Gleason. But we all know
Pol’s little smarty ways. He didn’t even defend himself, because,
secure in his innocence, he let the old detectives themselves find and
prove his alibi! A silly grandstand play, I call it!”

Pollard smiled. “It was silly, I daresay, but if I had eagerly
defended myself, they might have thought me guilty. So, why not let
them find out the truth for themselves? But, as to the chorus
kiddies—I doubt if the bravest of them would have the nerve to shoot
a man. Remember they’re only babies.”

“Not all of them,” offered Barry.

“Oh, well, those who have arrived at years of wisdom are not the ones
Gleason favored,” Pollard said. “However, there’s a possibility that
some man—some bold, bad man may have done it for the sake of a girl.”

“Then he must be found through the discovery of the girl,” declared
Lane. “And with that fur piece to work on, it’s a funny thing if they
can’t get the lady.”

“It would be coincidence, I think,” Pollard said, seriously. “I don’t
know much about real detective work, but it seems to me, if I found a
fur collar at the scene of the crime, the owner of that would be the
last person I’d look for.”

“You give the collar too much importance, Monroe, and you, Pollard,
give it too little,” Lane spoke in his most judicial manner. “I’m no
detective myself, but I am a lawyer, and I modestly claim a sort of
knowledge of criminal doings. The fur collar is a clew. It must be
investigated. It may lead to the truth and it may not.”

“Hear, hear!” cried Barry. “What wisdom! Oh, what sagacity! It may and
it may not! Lane, you’re a wizard at deduction!”

They all laughed, but Fred Lane was in no way dismayed.

“All right, you fellows,” he said; “but which of you can make any
better prognostication? Come now, here are four of us; let’s make a
bet—or, no, that’s hardly decent—let’s each express an opinion
regarding the murderer of Robert Gleason, and see who comes nearest to
the truth.”

“Sure we’ll ever know the truth?” asked Monroe.

“Well, if we don’t there’s no harm done. Go ahead, and let it be
understood that these are merely thoughts—private opinions and
absolutely confidential.”

“All right,” agreed Dean Monroe, “I’ll speak my mind first. I’m all
for the chorus girl—and when I say chorus girl, I use the term
generically. She may be a Movie Star or a Vaudeville artist. But some
chicken of the stage, is my vote. Yet I don’t claim but she did the
deed herself—it may well have been her stalwart gentleman friend, who
was jealous of the rich man’s friendship with his girl. There’s my
opinion.”

“Good enough, too,” appraised Lane. “Moreover, you’ve got the fur
collar in evidence. You may be right. You next, Pollard?”

“I’m inclined to think it was somebody from Gleason’s Seattle home.
Seems to me there must have been people out there who felt as I did
about the man—who really wanted him out of the world; and, too, they
may have had some definite grievance—some conventional motive—what
are they? Love, hate, money?”

“Revenge is one.”

“All the same, revenge and hate. Well, doesn’t it seem more like a
wild Westerner to come there and shoot up his man than for a New
Yorker to do it? I don’t take much stock in the chorus girl theory.”

“Wait a bit, Pol,” put in Barry. “Seattle isn’t wild and woolly and
cowboyish and bandittish! It’s as civilized as our own fair city, and
as little given to deeds of violence as New York itself!”

“Your logic is overwhelming,” Pollard laughed. “Ought to have been a
lawyer instead of an artist, Barry! But I stick to my guns—which are
the guns of the Westerners who knew Gleason—the inhabitants of
Seattle and environs. I may be all wrong, but it seems the most
plausible theory to me. Perhaps I’m prejudiced, but I think Seattle is
mighty well rid of its leading citizen.”

“Hush up, Manning,” reproved Monroe; “your foolish threat was bad
enough when the man was alive, it’s horrid to knock him now he’s
dead.”

“That’s so—I’ll shut up. But Lane asked for my opinion, and now he’s
got it.”

“Yours, Barry?” asked Lane, without comment on Pollard’s.

“I don’t want to express mine,” said Philip Barry, with such a serious
look that nobody smiled. “You see, I have a dreadful suspicion of—of
some one I know—we all know.”

“Me?” asked Pollard, cheerfully.

“No”; Barry grinned at him. “You’re just plain idiot! But, truly,
haven’t any of you thought of some one in—in our set?”

Apparently no one had, for each man present looked blankly inquiring.

“Oh, I’m not going to put it into words,” and Barry gave a shrug of
his shoulders. Slightly built, his dark, intense face showing his
artistic temperament, Philip Barry had a strong will and a high
temper.

Moreover, unlike his type, he had a desperate tenacity of opinion, and
once convinced of a thing would stick to it through thick and thin.

“Just because an idea came into my head,” he went on, “is no reason I
should give it voice. I might do an innocent man a desperate
injustice.”

“As you like, Barry,” Lane said, “but to my way of thinking, if you
have such an idea it’s your duty to give it voice. If your man’s
innocent it can’t harm him. If he’s guilty he ought to be suspected.
And, among us four, your views are an inviolable secret, unless
justice requires them to be told.”

“Well,” Barry began, reluctantly, “who first heard of this murder?”

“Doctor Davenport,” said Monroe, quickly. “His nurse telephoned from
the office——”

“Did the nurse tell you that?” Barry shot at him.

“Why, no, of course not. I haven’t seen the nurse.”

“Has anybody?”

“I don’t know. I suppose the police have.”

“You suppose! Well, they haven’t. I found that out. No, the police
have not thought it worth while to check up Doctor Davenport’s story
of his nurse’s message to him. They take it as he told it. It was nine
chances out of ten they would do so. I say, fellows, don’t you
remember that conversation we had about murder that afternoon—last
Tuesday afternoon?”

“I do,” answered Pollard. “It was then that I made my famous speech.”

“Yes; and that was remembered because it was unconventional and
damn-foolishness besides. But Doctor Davenport’s speeches, though of
far greater importance, are all forgotten.”

“I haven’t forgotten them,” said Pollard, thoughtfully. “He said the
detection of crime depended largely on chance.”

“Yes, and he minimized the chances.”

“But, good Lord, Barry, you’re not hinting——”

“I’m hinting nothing,” said Barry, speaking decidedly now, “I’m
reminding you what Davenport said; I’m reminding you of his whole
attitude toward the matter of murder; I’m reminding you of his
psychological mind, and that it might have been swayed in the
direction of crime; I’m reminding you that Pollard’s fool remark about
killing Gleason might have started a train of thought in the doctor’s
mind——”

“Making me accessory before the fact!” suggested Pollard.

“Unconsciously, yes, maybe. Well, there it is. You asked me for my
guess. You have it. It isn’t a suspicion, it isn’t even a theory—it’s
merely a guess—but it’s at least a possible one.”

“Barry, you’re batty!” Dean Monroe declared. “Us artists get that way
sometimes.” He beamed round upon the group. “Don’t mind Phil. He’ll
come out all right. And for heaven’s sake, fellows, forget what he has
said.”

Monroe was always looking out for his fellow artist and friend.

Barry’s impulsiveness had often been checked or steadied by Monroe’s
better judgment and clearer thought. And now, Monroe was truly
distressed at Barry’s speech.

“But where’s the motive?” Lane was asking, interested in this new
suggestion, and determined to look into it.

“That I don’t know,” said Barry. “I’ve no idea what his motive could
have been. But, for my part, I don’t believe in hunting the motive
first. A motive for murder is far more likely to be a secret than to
be something that anybody can deduce or guess.”

“Guessing is foolishness,” Pollard remarked, “but don’t you all
remember that Davenport mentioned fear as a common motive. I recollect
he did, and while I don’t for one minute incline to Barry’s
suggestion, yet I can admit the possibility of fear.”

“You mean Doc was afraid of Gleason? Why?” Lane spoke sharply.

“I don’t know why. I don’t know that he _was_ afraid—of Gleason
or anybody else. But I do say that he might have been—there are a
hundred reasons why a man may be secretly afraid of another man. Who
knows the secrets of his neighbor’s heart? I’m making no claim,
educing no theory, but it’s at least a fact that Davenport did speak
of fear as a motive. Now, I merely say, if you’re going to suspect
him, you may as well use that tip. That’s all.”

Pollard smoked on in silence, and each of the four thought over this
new idea.

“It’s shocking, that’s what it is, shocking!” exclaimed Dean Monroe,
at last. “I’m ashamed of you all, ashamed of myself, for harboring this
thought for a minute. Forget it, everybody.”

“Not so fast, Dean,” Barry rebuked him. “Any thought has a right to
expression—at the right time and place. I’ve given you this
suggestion for what it’s worth. I’ve nothing to base a suspicion
on—except that the first man to hear of a crime or to go to the spot
is a fair topic to think about.”

“But a doctor—called there!” Monroe went on, “You might as well
suspect the police themselves!”

“Yes, if they gave us a surprising story of a man killed by a shot and
_afterward_ telephoning for help.”

“That story is fishy,” admitted Lane.

“You bet it is,” assented Barry. “I can’t _see_ that telephoning
business at all!”




CHAPTER VIII

Miss Adams’ Story


In the offices of the District Attorney, Lane discussed the case with
Belknap. Without giving names or making any definite accusations, the
lawyer asked the Assistant District Attorney what he thought of Dr
Davenport’s story.

“True on the face of it,” replied Belknap, promptly.

“Yes,” Lane reminded him, “because it has not occurred to you to think
otherwise about it. But, how can you explain that telephoning?”

“It can’t be explained, so far as we know about it now. But, look
here, if Doctor Davenport killed Gleason—which, by the way, is the
most absurd idea I ever heard of—the last thing he would do would be
to make up such an unbelievable yarn as that of the man telephoning
after he had been fatally shot.”

“Doctor didn’t quite say that.”

“Circumstances say that. Gleason called up the doctor’s office and
said he was shot. The fatal shot was fired first. Elucidate.”

“I can’t. That’s the reason I’m here. We’ve got to find out about it.
I’m the Lindsays’ lawyer, and Mrs Lindsay is having hysterics and all
that. She’s of a revengeful temperament and wants the murderer of her
brother punished. This is not an unnatural feeling, and I want to do
all I can to push matters along. I don’t want the case to drift on and
on, until it’s laid on the shelf with lots of other unsolved
mysteries.”

“I don’t either, Lane,” Belknap said, earnestly, “and we’re working on
it night and day. Any news, Prescott?”

The query was addressed to the detective, who entered at the moment.

“No, Mr Belknap. But what you folks talking about? Doctor Davenport?”

Guardedly, Lane spoke of the strange story the doctor had told and
Prescott caught the drift at once.

“Where’d you get that dope?” he asked, his shrewd eyes scanning Lane’s
face.

“It isn’t dope—if you mean evidence; it’s merely scouting for
possible clews.”

“Yes, and it may be a boomerang clew! It may rebound against the man
that started it. Who did?”

“Nobody in particular,” and Lane looked stubborn.

“Yes, they did, now,” persisted Prescott. “Somebody started that lead,
and did it on purpose. Who made the suggestion? Manning Pollard?”

“No,” said Lane. “I’m not sure I know who spoke about it first.”

“Well, _I’m_ sure you know, and you’d better tell. Unless you’re
shielding somebody yourself. Better speak up, Mr Lane.”

“All right, then, it was Philip Barry. I believe it’s wiser to say so
than to conceal it. You can’t suspect him.”

“Why can’t I? I can suspect anybody that can’t prove his innocence.
And I’ve been thinking about Mr Barry myself. Isn’t he in love with
the heiress?”

“What heiress?”

“Miss Lindsay—half heiress of Mr Gleason’s big fortune.”

“What if he is? I could name a dozen young men in love with Miss
Lindsay. She’s a belle and has numberless admirers.”

“Yes, but Philip Barry’s a favored one, I’ve heard. Now, didn’t he
know Miss Lindsay would inherit?”

“I don’t know whether he did or not.”

“You knew it—you drew up the will.”

“Yes.”

“Did you tell anybody?”

Lane stared at him. “I’m not in the habit of babbling about my
clients’ affairs!” he said, coldly.

“Of course not. But did it leak out in any way—say, in general
conversation? Such things often do. It was no real secret, I suppose.”

“I treated it as one,” said Lane. “Of course, I considered it
confidential.”

“Of course,” put in Belknap. “Lawyers have to be close-mouthed people,
Prescott.”

But Prescott would not be downed.

“I know all that, Mr Belknap, but listen here. The news of that
inheritance might have leaked out in a dozen ways. Not purposely, of
course, but by chance. Wasn’t anybody ever in your office, Mr Lane,
when Mr Gleason was there, talking about it, or didn’t you ever
mention it in conversation with some intimate friend, say?”

Lane thought back.

“No,” he said, decidedly. “Unless—yes, one day, I remember, Manning
Pollard was in my office when Gleason came in. Gleason only stayed a
few minutes, but he did refer to his will, and after he went, I think
I did speak of it to Pollard.”

“Did he ask you about it?”

“No, I’m sure he didn’t. I think I volunteered an observation on the
queerness of the Western man, and, as Pollard didn’t like him, anyway,
very little was said.”

“But the terms of his will were spoken of?”

“Yes, incidentally. Pollard is a close friend of mine, and I may have
been a bit confidential.”

“There you are, then,” and Prescott nodded his sagacious head.

“Manning Pollard is a babbling sort of chap. I mean, he says things to
make a sensation—to shock or astound his audience. Ten chances to
one, he implied a knowledge of Gleason’s intentions just to appear
importantly wise.”

“No,” Lane demurred. “Pollard isn’t that sort, exactly. He does like
to make startling speeches, but they’re usually about himself, not
gossip about others.”

“Well, anyway, say Barry got an idea Pollard knew of Gleason’s will,
and got at the truth somehow. Or, maybe Barry found out from some one
else. Didn’t Miss Lindsay know of her inheritance?”

“I think not.”

“It doesn’t matter how he found out; say, Barry knew Miss Lindsay
would inherit, say, also, he was jealous of Gleason—which he was—and
say—just for the moment—he did kill Gleason. Wouldn’t he be likely
to try to turn suspicion on some one else—and who could he select
better than Doctor Davenport himself?”

Prescott beamed with an air of triumph at his conclusion, and looked
at the others for concurrence.

“Rubbish!” Lane scoffed. “You surely have built up a mountain out of a
silly molehill. Try again, Prescott.”

“I will try again, but it will be along these same lines,” and the
detective shook his head doggedly. “What say, Mr Belknap?”

Belknap looked thoughtful.

“I don’t see much in it,” he declared, “yet there may be. All you can
do, Prescott, is to investigate. Check up the doctor’s story, the
nurse’s story, and keep a watch on Barry. Your evidence is _nil_,
your suspicion has but slight foundation, and yet, it’s true Philip
Barry is a favored admirer of Miss Lindsay, he was jealous of Robert
Gleason, and whether he knew of the will or not, his name can’t be
ignored in this connection.”

“Go ahead,” said Lane, “investigate Barry thoroughly, but for heaven’s
sake, don’t be misled. Don’t assume his guilt merely because he
admires Miss Lindsay and was jealous of Gleason! Get some real
evidence.”

“I wasn’t born yesterday, Mr Lane,” Prescott said, looking at the
lawyer with some irritation. “I must find a direction in which to
look, mustn’t I? I must look in every direction that seems likely,
mustn’t I? I happen to know that there was bad blood between Doctor
Davenport and Mr Barry——”

“What do you mean by bad blood?” asked Lane.

“I mean they didn’t like each other—weren’t friendly—never chummed.
And the reason was that they were in love with the same girl.”

“Natural enough state of affairs,” commented Belknap. “Go ahead,
Prescott, look up the doctor’s yarn, look up Barry’s alibi, but, as Mr
Lane says, go carefully. I fancy, that though you may not get anything
on either of these men, you can’t help turning up something in the way
of evidence against somebody! Get all the facts you can, all the
information you can, and then see how it affects the individuals. Of
course, you must see the nurse that took the message from Gleason. I’m
surprised that hasn’t been done.”

“We simply accepted the doctor’s story,” said Prescott. “Now, I’ll
verify it.”

But before the detective began his promised verification, he elected
to go again to the Gleason apartments.

Here he visited Miss Adams, whose story, told him by Belknap,
interested him.

He used his best powers of persuasion on the spinster, and his
wheedlesome ways, and pleasant smile made her affable and loquacious.

By roundabout talk, he drew from her at last some descriptions of the
callers or visitors at the Gleason apartment.

She was loath to admit her curiosity, but she finally confessed that
she occasionally hung over the stairway to watch matters below.

She defended her deed by explaining that she was lonely, and a little
diversion of any sort was welcome.

“And, indeed, why shouldn’t I?” she asked; “it’s no crime to watch a
body going or coming along the street, or into a house!”

“Of course it isn’t,” agreed Prescott, sympathetically. “Now, whom did
you see go into Mr Gleason’s apartment on the day of the murder?”

“Two people.”

“Two! Both at once?”

“No; the lady came first.”

“Oh, she did. Wait a minute—did you see Mr Gleason himself come in?”

“I heard him.”

“What time?”

“After five. I don’t know any nearer than that.”

“Go on, then. A lady came? When?”

“Quite soon after Mr Gleason himself. I heard a light step on the
stairs and I looked out.”

“Describe her.”

“She was a gay little piece. Big eyes, tomato-colored cheeks and a
nose powdered like a marshmallow.”

“Small? Young?”

“Both; that is, very slim, but about average height. I looked mainly
at her clothes.”

“What were they?”

“Mostly fur, and long gray stockings and a little round cap of gray
fur.”

“Squirrel fur?”

“Yes, I guess so. Gray, anyway. A pert little thing she was, and yet
pretty too, in a sort of way.”

“What sort of way?”

“Oh, fly, flippant—flirtatious.”

“I don’t know—she just gave me that impression.”

“Would you know her if you saw her again?”

“I’m not sure—those little trots all look alike. But I’d know the
clothes.”

“Don’t squirrel furs all look alike?”

“Perhaps—yet I think I’d know her. You don’t think she killed Mr
Gleason, do you?”

“Gracious, no! Do you?”

“Well, I never saw her come out.”

“But you weren’t on watch all the time, were you?”

“No; of course not.” Miss Adams turned thoughtful. “But I didn’t hear
her go out—funny.”

“Who was the other caller?”

“A man.”

“After the girl came?”

“Yes; soon after. He was a swagger, well-dressed chap; not very large,
but tallish.”

“Derby hat?”

“No, sort of soft felt——”

“Gray?”

“Maybe—but more like olive green—dull olive.”

“Overcoat?”

“Yes, of course. Dark, plain, but with an air.”

Prescott looked at the old maid interestedly. How should she know when
men’s clothes had an air?

“I’m very observant,” she said, catching his expression.

“I’m fond of clothes, though I never had a smart gown in my life. But
I know when people are well-dressed.”

“The man went in then, before the girl came out?”

“Why, yes; but I never saw or heard the girl come out.”

“Did you see or hear the man come out?”

“No; but that’s not so strange. I wasn’t interested in him.”

“And you were in the girl?”

“Yes, I was. She’s no right to be calling at a man’s apartment! I’d no
thought of the man visitor, but I’d like to catch hold of that silly
young thing and give her a talking to.”

“Do you think she’d listen?”

“I know she wouldn’t! But I’d like the satisfaction of giving her a
piece of my mind!”

“You may get it. I’m going to try to find her.”

“Can you?”

“I don’t know. Well, now, see here; we are assuming that Mr Gleason
died at about quarter to seven. Do you think either or both of those
people stayed as long as that?”

“How on earth can I tell? I didn’t see them leave, you know.”

“And you saw no one else enter?”

“No.”

“Nor heard any one?”

“Not that I know of. After six o’clock, there’s more or less
trafficking on the stairs anyway. The tenants come home, you know.”

“Yes; now, you’re sure about these two, and that they came about five
o’clock?”

“I’m sure they came, but I can’t say certain about the time. It was
quite some after five, but I’ve no idea just how much after.”
Concluding he could learn no more from Miss Adams, Prescott went to
Doctor Davenport’s office to interview Nurse Jordan.

He found a calm, placid-faced woman, who, being interrogated, told the
story just as the doctor had told it.

“Describe the voice that came to you over the telephone,” said
Prescott.

“Well, it was gasping and faint—just what you would expect a man’s
voice to be after he had been shot.”

“Fatally shot?”

“Of course not! But I heard it, and I know what he said. Now if he
spoke, he must have been alive, and if he was alive, he hadn’t yet
been fatally shot. Had he?”

“Not likely. Then you assume the second shot was the fatal one?”

“How can I, when the doctors say otherwise?”

“What, then, do you think about it?”

“I don’t know what to think. If any other nurse had taken that message
I’d say she dreamed the thing. But I took it myself, and I know. The
only possible explanation I can think of, is that the murderer stood
there ready to shoot, but hadn’t yet fired. The victim somehow managed
to get the telephone call——”

“How could he? Why would the murderer let him?”

“I don’t know, I’m sure. But, say the murderer threatened him, and say
the victim made some plausible plea that made the murderer grant him a
moment’s respite to telephone——”

“Oh, I see. Or, say, the murderer was threatening Gleason’s life
unless he telephoned a certain party—not the doctor. Then say,
Gleason called this number as a last hope—and shouted that he was
already shot, when he was merely anticipating the deed, and in his
frenzy of fear, hoped that to tell the doctor that, would be to stay
the murderer’s hand.”

“That’s a way out,” Nurse Jordan said, musingly. “And that’s all I can
think of—that it was something of that sort. As I say, the voice was
husky and scared, but it would be that if he was threatened. Still, it
certainly sounded like the voice of a suffering, dying man. It was
short, gasping—as if strangling.”

“In that case, if he were already shot when he called up, I mean—the
death shot was not instantaneous, as is supposed, but the victim lived
a few moments. Might that be so?”

“I can’t say. I’ve never known Doctor Davenport to make a false
diagnosis and, too, the other doctors agree the shot in the shoulder
was fired after the man was dead.”

“That seems to be inexplicable.”

“It’s all inexplicable. There’s Doctor Davenport himself—talk to
him.”

Prescott blessed his luck that the doctor came in just then, and
eagerly began to question him.

“I was at Mrs Ballard’s,” the doctor said; “up on Ninetieth Street,
near Fifth Avenue. After I got the nurse’s message, I hurried down to
the Gleason place as fast as I could. I didn’t know the exact
number——”

“You didn’t!” Prescott felt sure this was meant as a blind, to
indicate the doctor’s slight acquaintance with Gleason.

“No; I didn’t. I had to telephone some one to find out. I tried the
Lindsays first, but the wire was busy, so I called up Manning
Pollard.”

“And he told you?”

“Yes, I didn’t get the call, but the Ballards’ butler did, and Pollard
gave him the address. Of course, the man told Pollard I wanted it.”

“I see. Then you went right down there?”

“Yes; and the rest is public knowledge. Look here, Prescott, what are
you getting at?”

“Only the truth. Go on, tell the story. I have to get these details.”

“What details?”

“Of what happened before the police came.”

“Oh, you know it all. How I got help and broke in the door, and found
Gleason on the floor, dead.”

“He was dead when you entered?”

“Of course he was.”

“With two shots in his body.”

“Yes; why go over these things with me? I’ve made my report.”

“I know! but I want to find out about the telephoning. How do you
account for a man telling of his own death?”

“That’s the puzzle. It’s the queerest thing I ever knew, Prescott, but
it isn’t my province to ferret out the truth. My duty in the case is
done, and you know it. Now good-by.”

“One minute, Doctor. Will you tell me where you were that
afternoon—the afternoon of the murder?”

Davenport stared at him.

“Meaning that you suspect me of the crime?”

“I haven’t said so. Are you one of those people who think every
question a detective asks implies an accusation? There might be a
dozen reasons for my asking you that besides suspicion of you as
Gleason’s murderer.”

“Well, of course, I’ve no reason for not telling. I left the Club with
Dean Monroe. I set him down at his home, in West Fifty-sixth Street,
and then I made a short round of calls. Not more than three or four,
special cases. And while I was at Mrs Ballard’s the message came from
Nurse Jordan. Satisfied of my alibi?”

Davenport’s tone was sarcastic, and his smile was not pleasant. But,
as Prescott reflected, nobody likes to be wrongfully suspected.

A fleeting thought went through the detective’s mind that if Doctor
Davenport had killed Gleason he might have done so when he went down
there at seven o’clock. But that would mean that Nurse Jordan told a
string of falsehoods, and the whole affair would have been a most
complicated proceeding. No, if the doctor were the murderer, he would
not have called up Pollard to get that address.

But did he do that? Prescott went away and went straight to a
telephone booth and called Pollard.

“What?” Pollard said as he heard the query. “Called me up to ask
Gleason’s address? Why, no—oh, yes, he did. I remember now. He did,
and I gave it to him. Why?”

“Tell you some other time,” said Prescott. “Good-by.”




CHAPTER IX

Ivy Hayes


“I’ve no faith in the police, no faith in detectives and no faith in
anybody!”

This wholesale skepticism was voiced by Millicent Lindsay, and
addressed to her small audience of friends gathered in her library.

“It’s outrageous,” she went on, “nearly a week has passed since my
brother’s murder, and no real step has been taken to find his
murderer.”

“Steps have been taken,” said Louis, “but they all seem to have been
taken in the wrong direction.”

“At any rate they led nowhere,” Millicent went on. “Nobody knows
anything; nobody can explain the mystery of the two shots. Nobody
knows of any motive for the crime.”

“You’ve ceased to suspect Phyllis, then,” Philip Barry said, his smile
a little forced as he eagerly awaited the answer.

“I have and I haven’t,” Millicent returned, speaking slowly. “Of
course, it seems absurd to think a young girl like Phyllis would do
such a dreadful thing—but—she won’t tell where she was, and, too,
she didn’t like my brother—at least, she didn’t welcome his offer of
marriage, and if she knew of his will, and I think she did, why
shouldn’t I suspect her?”

“Well, quit suspecting her,” Louis growled. “Phyllis is as innocent as
a baby. You’re off your head, Millicent, to dream of such a thing.”

“All right, why won’t she tell where she was at the time of the crime,
then?”

“She doesn’t have to. Nobody really suspects her, and her affairs have
no reason to be inquired into. That right, Barry?”

“Yes, of course. I think Phyllis would be wise to say where she was at
the time. But, I say, Millicent, I’m going to get busy myself, and do
a little detective work. Like you, I feel the investigations so far
have led nowhere.”

“Have you a suspicion——” began Louis.

“Not a suspicion, exactly, but a pretty strong notion of which way to
look. I won’t say what it is, for I had another hunch, that pretty
much fell through; but now I’m going to work on a new line, and I
think I may unearth something.”

“You won’t,” said Millicent, despondently. “You’re all alike—dig up a
lot of evidence and then never prove anything from it. Do tell me,
Phil, what way your suspicions turn.”

“Why, yes, I’ll tell you, for I think you ought to be kept informed. I
can’t help leaning to the chorus girl theory. I feel sure that fur
collar was left by the girl at that time, and as I see it, she could
have gone there with some man, a friend of hers who either was jealous
of Mr Gleason, or who had it in for him for some other reason. Then
suppose, in a quarrel, the man shot Gleason—perhaps Gleason
threatened him—anyway, you can’t tell what occurred, but I’m going to
find the girl.”

“You’re all wrong,” said Louis, and his voice was so full of
concentrated passion that Barry looked up quickly.

“You’re all wrong,” Louis repeated; “the idea of a man shooting
another man before a girl! Do have a little sense of probability,
Barry.”

“I have, and it’s not an impossibility that the deed should have been
committed before the girl witness. I’ve thought it all out. I don’t
believe it was premeditated, but suppose the pair went there to settle
a grievance and Mr Gleason lost his temper and threatened his
visitor—the man—and in a quarrel, the pistol was flourished about,
and the visitor grabbed it and shot, maybe in self-defense.”

“All theory,” scoffed Louis. “Nothing at all to back it up.”

“I’m going to find out,” Barry persisted. “I’m going to find the owner
of that fur——”

“I wish you wouldn’t, Phil.” Louis’ face was white and his voice
trembled a little.

“Why, Louis,” Millicent exclaimed; “what’s the matter? Do you know
anything about this business? Actually, from your agitation you might
be unduly interested.”

“No! I don’t know anything about it, but I think it’s awful to hunt
down some poor little innocent girl——”

“I’m not hunting her—I’m hunting the man who was with her.”

“A purely imaginary man!” Louis exclaimed.

“So far. But if he doesn’t materialize, there’s no harm done.”

Just then, Phyllis came in with Manning Pollard.

“We’ve been for a walk,” she said, and the roses in her cheeks proved
the good effects of the exercise. “Mr Pollard said I needed more
outdoor air, so we walked forty-five blocks. I wish you’d go out,
Millicent, it would do you good.”

“Come on, Mrs Lindsay,” Pollard suggested; “I’ll take you next.”

“Thank you, I may go some other time. Now, we’re discussing the case.
Sit down, and tell us what you think, Mr Pollard.”

“My opinion is no secret. I incline to some earlier acquaintance of Mr
Gleason’s. Perhaps some one from his Western home, or from anywhere.
I’ve heard all the evidence that has been brought forward about any
one of his New York acquaintances, and I must admit there’s not a
shred of it worth considering. Indeed, there’s practically no
evidence—do you know of any, Barry?”

“Only the fur collar,” said Barry, with a decided nod of his head. “I
think, as that is the only piece of real, tangible evidence, it ought
to be run to earth. I believe Prescott tried to do so, but his effort
fell through, somehow. At any rate, I’m going to take up that clew,
and see if I can’t get a line on the truth.”

“All rubbish,” Louis growled. “Tell him not to do it, Pollard.”

“Why should I do that?” Pollard asked. “If Barry’s sleuthing leads to
anything, I’ll be glad of it. Like Mrs Lindsay, I want to know who did
this thing. I don’t have much faith in the fur collar sign-board,
myself, for I think the thing was left there by some little girl
caller, who had no connection whatever with the crime.”

“Maybe,” Barry acquiesced. “But in that case, I’ll do no harm. I
promise not to bother the little girl—why do we all assume her to be
little—if she knows nothing of interest to us.”

“How are you going about your task?” Louis asked. He was still annoyed
about it. His bent brows and frowning face showed a special interest
and a dislike of Barry’s plans. He moved uneasily in his chair,
suddenly sitting bolt upright, and then falling back in careless
relaxation.

“Do sit still, Louis,” said Phyllis; “you make me quite
nervous—acting like that. I wish you’d go out for a walk. You sit
mewed up here, brooding, until you’re in a perfect state of feverish
excitement. Run out, dear; go for a brisk walk. The air is fine and
bracing.”

Phyllis looked anxiously after her brother.

He returned her gaze, seemed touched by her concern for him, and
finally rose and followed her advice.

“I’ve always had the care of him,” Phyllis said, as she looked fondly
after him. “He’s a darling, but he has moods. And the best thing for
him is to get away from this eternal discussion of the ‘case.’”

“Perhaps you’d like to get away, too,” said Millicent, tartly. “I
don’t think you show any sympathy for me, Phyllis, in my trouble. But,
why should you? You’ve got your inheritance and you’re rid of a
troublesome suitor——”

“Don’t talk like that, Millicent,” Phyllis begged, tears in her eyes.
“Indeed, I do sympathize with you, and I’m ready and willing to do
anything I can to help you.”

“All right, then, turn your mind to thinking about who caused Robert’s
death. You’re a bright girl, you have a really clever mind. Why can’t
you ferret out the truth as well as a man? As I’ve been saying, I
don’t think the police detectives get anywhere. I think friends know
much more about the possibilities and probabilities——”

“We do,” Barry agreed. “And to prove it, I’m going to start on my
search at once. I’m going down to the Gleason apartment, I’m going to
get that fur and take it with me, and I’ll bet I’ll find somebody in
the house, some busybody or curious woman who has seen a girl there
with that fur on. We all know Mr Gleason had friends among the younger
members of the theatrical profession. There’s no use blinking that
fact, and I propose to find out something, at any rate.”

“Well, go on, then,” urged Millicent, impatiently; “don’t sit there
and talk about it! Start off, now.”

“I go!” and with a smiling good-by, Barry departed.

“He won’t do a thing,” Pollard said, with an indulgent smile. “He’s on
a wild goose chase. I’d like to help you, Mrs Lindsay, but I confess I
don’t take any stock in the girls. Now, have you any old letters or
papers of your brother’s that you can look over. I feel that in those
you might find a past acquaintance or some old quarrel or altercation
that might show you a way to look. This is only a theory, but it’s as
plausible as any other I’ve heard put forth.”

“It is, Mr Pollard,” Millicent agreed. “I’ve none of Robert’s papers
here—they’re all at his rooms still. And I suppose Mr Lane has charge
of them. But I can get them, and I shall do just as you’ve advised. Of
course, there may be something divulged that way, but I doubt if my
brother had an enemy out West. He was a much-liked man——”

“I know that,” Phyllis interrupted, “but you must admit, Millicent,
that even well-liked men may have enemies. There’s lots about a man’s
private life that would contradict the general impression of him.”

“That’s you all over, Phyllis! You never lose a chance to cast a slur
on my brother’s memory. I should think you would have a little
gratitude to the man who left you a fortune.”

“I have, Millicent. And you must not misconstrue my words as you do. I
am anxious, too, to find your brother’s murderer. And if, as Mr
Pollard suggests, it may be some Western acquaintance, we must try to
find him. And Mr Gleason’s private letters and papers may reveal
much.”

“Yes, I suppose so. Now, with Phil Barry after the chorus girl, and Mr
Pollard’s suggestions of hunting among the letters, we, at least have
something to do. I shall send word to Mr Lane at once that I want all
the papers from Robert’s desk.”

She went away to telephone, leaving Phyllis and Manning Pollard alone.

“It’s a mere chance,” said Pollard, thoughtfully; “it may well be that
Mr Gleason would destroy any letters that are indicative of the sort
of thing we’re looking for.”

“I don’t think so,” the girl returned. “I imagine Mr Gleason would
have kept such papers. You see, I knew the man better than you did.
You hardly knew him at all, did you?”

“No; I never met him more than two or three times, and that in the
most formal way.”

“Yet you threatened to kill him!”

“Don’t put it that way, Miss Lindsay—please. My idle words have been
repeated till I’m tired of hearing them! I did say I disliked the
man—and I did. That’s all there was about it.”

“I disliked him, too,” said Phyllis, slowly. “I always had a nervous
dread of him. I don’t know why, but he always affected me
unpleasantly, even when he was most kind.”

“Then you know what I mean. That unreasonable, inexplicable
detestation of his presence. So, of course, when the man was killed,
they assumed it was my work. I left it to them to find out where I was
at the time for I knew that would be a surer proof of my innocence
than if I vehemently denied guilt and tried to prove an alibi. But
you, too, I’m told, refuse to say where you were at the time of the
crime.”

“Yes,” Phyllis whispered. “Don’t ask me. I don’t want to tell. I have
good reasons for my silence, truly.”

“And not connected with Mr Gleason’s death.”

Pollard did not voice this as a question, but merely as a statement of
fact, and Phyllis gave him a glance of gratitude for his faith in her.

But she did not corroborate his assertion and his inquiring glance
that followed met with no definite response.

“Now is there anything I can do?” Pollard asked, after a more or less
desultory chat. “I’m at your command——”

“I thought you were a very busy man,” and Phyllis smiled at him.

“Not when I can be of any assistance to you or Mrs Lindsay. Though now
that you have come into a great fortune, perhaps an humble pen-pusher
will cease to interest you.”

“No,” said Phyllis, seriously; “on the contrary, I shall have more
need than ever of friends who can advise me in certain ways.”

“Surely your lawyer will do that. Lane is a most capable legal
adviser——”

“I don’t mean that. I mean in other ways—things on which I wouldn’t
dream of discussing with Mr Lane. Oh, I have awful troubles——”

“I’m so sorry.” Pollard’s serious, kindly manner carried conviction.
“I’d be glad to help you, but in important matters you’d better
consult some one of sound judgment and special knowledge. If you don’t
care to confide in Lane, ask him for the type of adviser you do need.”

“But, Mr Pollard,” the girl hesitated, “it isn’t a question of special
knowledge at all. I just want advice from some man of the world—a man
of our set, of our interests. Somebody who knows what to do in a
crisis——”

“Please, Miss Phyllis—don’t talk like that! If you do, I shall be
tempted to offer my own services, and I’m sure there are many better
fitted for the position.”

“Oh, I wish you would help me——”

“Why not go to Barry?”

“Phil Barry? He’s a dear, and a good friend to me, but he has what is
known as the artistic temperament—and you know what that means.
No—the weight on my mind—the awful quandary I’m in, couldn’t be
helped by him. He’s the last man to help me. Oh, Mr Pollard—I
oughtn’t to ask you—in fact, I oughtn’t to tell anybody—but I feel
so helpless. Perhaps Mr Lane would be the best one after all. I don’t
know what I ought to do!”

Pollard looked at the lovely face, so full of grief and uncertainty.
He wondered what it could be about. Was it the exaggerated fear of a
young girl, that had little or no real foundation. Or—could it be
possible that she had some knowledge, guilty or evidential, of the
Gleason affair.

After a pause the man spoke.

“Miss Phyllis,” he said, with a gentle courtesy, “I want to help you,
more than I can tell you—more than I ought to tell you. But I’m not
going to take advantage of what may be merely a mood of confidence.
You think things over; you consider your other friends—or legal
advisers—and after careful thought, if you want to make me your
confidant, I shall be honored, and I will advise you to the best of my
powers. But don’t be hasty. Think it over well, and—may I see you
to-morrow?”

“How kind you are!” the girl held out her hand with a pretty impulsive
gesture. “That’s just what I want; to think it over a little and
decide whether I want to tell Mr Lane,—or whether I’d rather confide
in a—a friend.”

“Of course you do,” was the hearty response. “And Lane, who has wide
knowledge, is also a good friend. Consider carefully, and decide
slowly. But depend on me to the last ditch, if I can be of help.”

Meantime Philip Barry was on his quest.

He had decided on straightforward measures, and, gaining an accurate
description of the fur piece, had gone directly to the home of Ivy
Hayes, whose picture, he knew, graced the Gleason apartment.

He found the young lady and obtained an interview without difficulty.

“Well?” she said, as she appeared before him.

He saw a slim young thing, who might have been any one of thousands of
young girls one meets everywhere, in the street or on the streetcars.

Muffs of dark hair over her ears; hand-painted cheeks and lips; saucy,
powdered nose, and a slender shape encased in a one-piece frock, both
scant and short.

“Miss Hayes?” said Barry, bowing politely.

“The same. And you are——?”

“Philip Barry.”

“Oh, are you? Hello, Phil, what’s the big idea.”

“Only to learn if you lost your fur collar?”

“H’m. My sable one—or my chinchilla?”

“Neither,” Barry couldn’t help smiling at the impertinent face; “your
gray squirrel.”

“Oh, that one. Now, s’pose I say no?”

“Then you’re out one piece of fur.”

“And s’pose I say yes?”

“Then you get your fur back, but you’ll be asked a few questions.”

“Guess it’s worth it. Where’s the pelt?”

“The police have it.”

“Lordy!” Ivy dropped into a chair and pretended to faint. “Now how
does that come about?” she asked, cocking one eye up at her caller.

“Oh, I fancy you know.”

“Come on—let’s put all the cards on the table. You don’t think I had
anything to do with the—the fatal deed, do you?”

“What fatal deed?”

“Don’t be silly. I told you to be frank. Old Gleason’s murder, to be
sure.”

“You left your fur there?”

“Yep, I did.”

“The day of the murder?”

“Sure. I was there that afternoon.”

“You admit this!”

“Why not? It’d be found out anyway, and, as I didn’t have anything to
do with the shooting, I don’t see why I don’t get my fur back. It’s an
awful nice little collar.”

“You’ll get it back, Miss Hayes; and now, instead of waiting for a
police detective to interview you, suppose you tell me all you know
about the matter.”

“I don’t know much, but what I have is yours. I went round there, that
afternoon, on—an errand.”

“What was the errand? You may as well tell as to have me drag it out
of you.”

“That’s so. Well, our old gentleman friend said he’d give a party for
me and a few friends. Oh, a nice, proper supper party—after the
theater some night. I’m in the chorus now. Used to be in the movies.
Anyway, he promised and promised, and never set the time. So I
telephoned and telephoned and I couldn’t get him to make a date, so I
just went round there to try and persuade him.”

“Did you see him?”

“Sure I did.”

“Did he make the date?”

“No; the old fourflusher! He crawled out of it, and said if I’d let
him off he’d give me a nice present. Said he’d take me to any jewelry
shop I chose, to pick it out. Said he’d take me the next day. Now, you
don’t suppose I’d croak a guy that was about to give me a bracelet, do
you?”

“I do not. And you were so excited you came away and left your fur
there?”

“Just that! I wasn’t sure I did leave it there, for I was at two or
three other places that day. When do I get the squirly?”

“Oh, in a few days, I should say. I’ll take your yarn to headquarters,
and they’ll do the rest. But, I say, when you came away from there, Mr
Gleason was alive and well?”

“You bet he was! He fairly shooed me out—he was in a hurry to get
ready to go to a party or something. Oh, my gracious!”

“What’s that exclamation for?”

“Nothin’. A pin stuck into me.”

Barry knew better. A sudden thought had come to the girl, a thought
that filled her with dismay for some reason. But Philip Barry felt the
matter was getting too serious for him, and he decided to put it in
the hands of the police.

He went straight back to the Lindsays’.

“Come in, Mr Barry,” was the first greeting he heard, as he entered
the library, where several people were sitting in conclave. “You’re
just the man we want!”

The speaker was Prescott, the detective, and he held an open letter in
his hand.

“We’ve nailed you,” he said to Barry. “No use your saying much. This
letter speaks for itself.”

Mechanically, Barry took the paper the detective handed to him.

It was a letter, typewritten, on club paper. In ran thus:

    Mr Robert Gleason: Sir:

    There is small necessity of words between us. Unless you
    see fit to cease your attentions to a lady of our mutual
    acquaintance, I shall take matters into my own hands and
    shall so arrange things that it will be impossible for
    you to annoy her further.

                                                Philip Barry.

The signature, pen signed, was undoubtedly Barry’s own, and the date
was the day before the murder.




CHAPTER X

The Signed Letter


Philip Barry stood staring at the paper the detective had handed to
him.

“What foolery is this?” he said, angrily. “I never saw this before.”

“No?” said Prescott, a sarcastic smile on his face. “How’d you write
it then? Blindfolded?”

“So it was you!” Millicent Lindsay cried. “I knew we’d get at the
truth, but I didn’t think you were the criminal, Philip! Oh, you may
as well own up—the proof is positive!”

“Not positive,” Phyllis said, looking at Barry, kindly. “It isn’t sure
that Mr Barry killed Mr Gleason, just because he wrote this note—is
it, Mr Prescott?”

“Looks mighty like it,” the detective returned. “But we’ll listen to
what he has to say. You wrote this?”

“I did not!” and Barry’s eyes flashed ominously. “I tell you I never
saw it before.”

“That is your signature?”

“It looks like it, I admit, but it can’t be, for I never wrote that
letter. Where’d you get it?”

“In Mr Gleason’s desk. At his apartment. As you see, it’s dated the
day before the murder took place, it’s—to say the least—a bit
incriminating. What’s your explanation?”

“I haven’t any—I——”

“Wait a minute, Mr Barry.” Prescott spoke seriously. “Here’s a
threatening note, signed by yourself, written on your Club paper to Mr
Gleason. Unless you can prove that signature forged, I think your
denial of any knowledge of this document cannot be believed.”

“Believe it or not,” Barry stormed, “I tell you I never wrote that. I
never saw it! I don’t know anything about it! I’ve been out
investigating the case, getting evidence and all that, and I came back
here with it and you thrust that thing at me! I tell you it’s a
forgery! Somebody’s trying to get me into this thing—but the game
can’t be worked!”

“Will you sign your name, Mr Barry?” Prescott asked quietly.

“No, I won’t! I deny your right to ask it!”

“But a refusal is a tacit admission——”

“No admission at all! I refuse to do a silly thing like that! The
signature does resemble mine—but it can’t be mine, for I didn’t write
it.”

“Have you any of Mr Barry’s signatures in your possession?” Prescott
asked of Phyllis.

“No,” she said, promptly, and though Prescott doubted her word, he
didn’t say so.

“How silly!” Louis exclaimed. “It’s dead easy to get a signature of
yours, Phil, why not write one now, and have it over with. Of course
the thing is a forgery!”

Apparently seeing the sense of this, Barry went to the desk and dashed
off his name on a sheet of paper.

“There!” he cried, angrily, as he flung it at Prescott.

The detective examined the two, and gave a short whistle.

“Well,” he declared, “if I knew of anybody who could forge as well as
that—I’d get him behind bars as quick as possible! Why, man, the
signatures are identical! As to the typing, that is as personal as
penmanship. Have you a typewriter?”

“No”; growled Barry, looking like a wild beast at bay. “I haven’t.”

“Do you ever use one?”

“No.”

Louis looked up, with such a surprised air, that Prescott said, “Yes,
you do. Whose?”

“Nobody’s,” repeated Barry, now furiously incensed. “You quit these
absurd questions! I won’t answer any more!”

“Why, Phil,” said Phyllis, gently, “don’t get so angry. Mr Prescott is
only trying to find out about this letter.”

“And an important letter it is,” cried Millicent.

She was greatly excited, her eyes flashed and her lips trembled, as
she fairly glared at Barry.

“So you’re the criminal,” she went on, “you killed my brother! Some
need to ask why! Just because you’re in love with Phyllis and you
found Robert was cutting you out! A fine way to remedy matter—to kill
your rival!”

“Oh, Millicent,” Phyllis begged, “don’t jump at conclusions like that!
Even if Phil did write that letter it doesn’t prove he killed Mr
Gleason.”

“No”; Barry said, as if struck with a new view of it all; “even if I
did write that, it proves nothing further.”

“Oho!” said Prescott, “you’re admitting that you wrote it, then?”

“I admit nothing. I deny nothing. I only say——”

“Don’t say anything, Phil,” Louis warned him. “You say too much,
anyway. Prescott’s on the job, let him find out who wrote the letter,
and who signed it.”

“As if there was any doubt;” the detective scoffed. “But, laying aside
the question for the moment, did you say, Mr Barry, that you have been
doing some investigating on your own account?”

“On my own account, and on account of my friends here,” Barry replied,
but his tone and expression betrayed agitation. “I’ve found out who
owns the fur collar.”

“Who?” Prescott asked.

“Ivy Hayes.”

The effect of his announcement was slight on all present, except Louis
Lindsay. He started, looked frightened, began to speak and then
checked himself.

“Well, Louis,” Barry said, “out with it! I know you’re interested in
Miss Hayes—what’s the word?”

“This is the word,” said Louis, and his low voice was intense and
incisive, “if you or anybody else undertakes to drag Ivy Hayes’ name
into this muddle, you’ll have to reckon with me!”

“Oh, come, now,” Prescott smiled, “in the first place, I won’t have my
case called a muddle—next, if Miss Hayes or anybody else is connected
with it in any way, she’s in it already, without having to be dragged
in—as you call it. Go on, Mr Barry, what did you learn from or about
Miss Hayes?”

“I learned that she was in Mr Gleason’s apartment the afternoon of the
murder——”

“She wasn’t!” Louis exclaimed, “She wasn’t!”

“Oh, hush, Louis,” Barry said, contemptuously, “she told me herself
she was.”

“Go on,” said Prescott.

“She left Mr Gleason alive and well, when she departed.”

“At what time?”

“She doesn’t remember exactly—it’s the hardest thing in the world to
make people assert a time. But I gathered it was not far from six
o’clock when she left Gleason’s rooms.”

“That’s getting pretty close to the time of the murder,” Prescott said
thoughtfully.

“Oh, she didn’t kill Gleason,” Barry put in, “He was planning to take
her next day to buy a bracelet—as Ivy said, why would she kill a man
who was about to do that?”

“You innocent!” exclaimed Millicent; “of course, she said that to pull
the wool over your eyes! I don’t believe you did it after all, Phil! I
believe it was that Ivy person! A girl like that wouldn’t leave her
fur collar, unless she went away in a fearful hurry or trepidation.”

“A point, Mrs Lindsay,” and Prescott looked at her admiringly. “It
would indeed denote a preoccupied mind, to leave a fur collar. And she
was there about six, you say. But the man wasn’t killed till nearly
seven.”

“Oh, she didn’t tell the truth about the time,” said Millicent,
nodding her head sagaciously. “I’m surprised she admitted being there
at all—but, I’m told they always slip up on some details.”

“Well, at any rate, there are several matters to be looked into,”
Prescott said, rising to go. “I’m interested in your story of the
Hayes girl, Mr Barry, but I’m even more interested in this letter you
wrote.”

“I didn’t write it, I tell you!”

“I know you tell me so, but I can’t take your word for that. I’m going
to consult a penmanship expert. And, if you’ll take my advice you
won’t try to leave town—for, you’d find it difficult.”

“Meaning I’m to be under surveillance?”

“Oh, well, the matter has to be cleared up,” Prescott shrugged.

“Perfectly ridiculous!” Barry stormed on, after the detective had
gone; “you know, don’t you, Phyllis, I had nothing to do with the
matter?”

“Of course,” Phyllis replied, but her voice was disinterested and her
gaze was far off. “But, look here, Phil, tell me something. When can I
get my money—or some of it?”

“How much?”

“Twenty thousand dollars.”

“Whew! What do you want of all that? Are you mercenary, Phyllis?”

“No; but I want it——”

“Oh, she does!” cried Millicent. “She’s been harping on that all day.
I think it’s disgraceful! She thinks of nothing but that.”

“Oh, no, Millicent,” and Phyllis’ face flushed painfully—“I do want
some ready cash, for an important purpose——”

“And sometimes I go back to my first idea that you killed my brother,”
Mrs Lindsay glared at her stepdaughter.

Millicent Lindsay was becoming more and more nervously unstrung about
her brother’s death. Hers was a super-emotional nature, and combined
with a desperate spirit of revenge, she grew excited every time the
subject was discussed. And as she never lost a possible chance to
discuss it, the state of her nerves was becoming permanently affected.
Not content to leave the matter to detectives, she continually
discovered, or thought she did, new evidence, and promptly changed her
suspicions to correspond. She transferred her accusations from one
suspect to another with remarkable speed and often unjustifiable
assurance.

At present she was quite willing to believe in the guilt of Ivy Hayes
or Philip Barry, or, as she just stated, to turn back to her original
suspicion of Phyllis.

“Oh, Lord,” Barry groaned, “you’re the limit, Millicent! You are quite
capable of believing every one of us killed Gleason! Why do you except
old Pollard from your mind? He said he was going to do it, you know.”

“Yes; that’s why I know he didn’t! If he had intended it, he wouldn’t
have said so.”

“I say, Mill, you do have flashes of insight,” Louis said, “that’s the
way I look at it.”

“But I saw Pollard down in the vicinity of Gleason’s place today,”
said Barry. “Now, what was he doing down there?”

“Drawn back to the scene of his crime!” Louis chaffed. “They say
that’s always done. No; Phil, you can’t hang anything on Pollard.
Prescott checked up his movements at once. Also, I want you to drop
Ivy Hayes’ name. For my sake, old chap, do let up on that. Now, what
about yourself? Explain that letter, boy.”

“I can’t,” Barry looked troubled.

“Oh, bosh. Why not own up you wrote it, but you didn’t mean murder and
didn’t commit murder. That’s the truth, you know.”

“No, Louis—I didn’t write it.”

“’Scuse me, but your tone and look are not those of a man telling the
pure unvarnished. Now, I know that nobody on this green earth could
have written that signature but Philip Barry himself. And I also
recognize the typewriter you used. As Prescott says, typing is as
traceable as penmanship, and that note was written on the machine in
the writing room at the Club. It’s been there for years, and we all
write on it now and then. So you see, Phil, you’d better be careful
what you say.”

“Be quiet,” Phyllis warned them; “here comes Mr Pollard; I don’t
suppose you want him to hear this.”

“Why not?” said Louis, but Barry checked him with a look as Pollard
came in.

“May I come?” he said, as he greeted the women. “I’m starving for a
cup of tea, and you asked me to come informally and unbidden——”

“Of course we did,” Phyllis smiled; “sit down, tea is imminent.”

“I’ve been writing my head off all day,” Pollard went on, as he took
an easy chair. “Haven’t even been out for a breath of air——”

“Why—” Phyllis was about to say that Barry had seen him down near the
Gleason home, but she stopped herself in time. She had no wish to trip
up Phil Barry—indeed, her feelings prompted her to shield him—but
surely, surely, he had falsified in this instance! Why?

There was but one answer. Barry was trying to make Pollard again
suspected. Notwithstanding Barry’s insistence on Pollard’s alibi, a
stray hint, such as he had given about seeing him down town, made
things questionable again.

Quickly changing the subject, Phyllis made the conversation general,
and though the Gleason matter cropped up now and then, other topics
were mentioned.

Also, Phyllis returned to her great desire to get some of her
inheritance at once.

“Why, surely you can,” Pollard said; “how much do you want? Can’t I
advance you some?”

“No; I want twenty thousand dollars, and I don’t want to say what
for.”

Like a flash, Pollard’s mind went back to that afternoon—the day of
the murder—when he saw Phyllis pass him in a taxicab. He had been
standing, he remembered, in the corner of Fifth Avenue and
Forty-second Street, and he distinctly saw Phyllis, and a strange man
with her. She had not seen him—of that he was sure—and now, as she
voiced this strange desire, he wondered what in the world she had been
up to.

“I’m not asking what you want all that for,” he said, with a kindly
smile, “but maybe you’d care to say.”

“No; I wouldn’t.” Her face was pink, but her voice was calm and her
glance at him steady. “I will say, however, that it is for a purpose
which no one could disapprove of——”

“Then why not tell?” Millicent exclaimed. “That’s Phyllis all over, Mr
Pollard; she’d make a mystery out of nothing! If her purpose is a good
one, why keep it so secret? I’ll tell you why; only because Phyllis
loves to create a sensation! She loves to be wondered at and thought
important.”

“Oh, Millicent, what nonsense!” Phyllis blushed painfully now.

“Let up, Mill,” Louis said; “my sister is not like that. I can easily
understand why she might want a round sum of money, for a perfectly
good reason, yet not want to tell everybody all about it. And she
ought to have it, too. Lane could give it to her, if he chose——”

“He says he can’t,” Phyllis said.

“I’ll be glad to lend it to you,” Pollard told her, “as soon as I can
get it together. I’ve stocks I can sell——”

“Don’t you do it, Mr Pollard,” said Millicent. “Phyllis can wait.
There’s no such desperate haste—or, if there is——”

“Hush, Millicent!” Louis spoke sternly. “You’re going to insinuate
something about Phyllis and the—the affair—and I won’t have it!”

“Oh, Mr Pollard,” Millicent broke forth, “you haven’t heard about Phil
Barry’s note, have you?”

“No, he hasn’t,” said Barry, looking daggers at Millicent; “but, of
course, he soon will, so I’ll tell it myself. Why, Pol, a note has
been discovered among Gleason’s papers, signed by me.”

“Well, did you sign it?”

“Never! But——”

“If you didn’t sign it, why bother? Experts nowadays can tell
positively a forgery from a real signature. You’re all right. But what
was the note? Of any importance?”

“Oh, it contained what might be looked upon as a threat against
Gleason’s life.”

Pollard smiled involuntarily.

“We’re in the same boat, then, Phil. You know I’m accused of
threatening the same thing.”

“Yes, but you did threaten it—I heard you. And you were just talking
foolishly. But this written matter is different. The thing said if
Gleason didn’t let Phyllis alone, I’d do for him.”

“Why, internal evidence, then, proves you never wrote it. You wouldn’t
express yourself in that way in a thousand years.”

“I haven’t quoted it verbatim. That’s only the gist of it.”

“Oh, well; tell me more. Is it all written by you—apparently?”

“No; but it’s on that typewriter—over at the Club—you know——”

“I know,” Pollard looked serious now. “A note written on that old
junk-heap, and signed by you—I don’t get it, Phil.”

“Of course you don’t, Pol, I don’t myself! There’s a conspiracy
against me, I believe! Somebody——”

“Oh, come, now, Barry, what sort of talk is that? You had no animosity
against Gleason——”

“Oh, didn’t I? Well, then, I did—very much so!”

“Phil, stop!” cried Phyllis. “Don’t you see you oughtn’t to say such
things? Please don’t.”

“It doesn’t matter, here among ourselves,” said Pollard, “but speak
out, Phil; say where you were at the time of the murder. Quash all
possibility of suspicion at once. I used that bravado stunt, and
though it’s all right now—yet it made him a lot of bother. I wouldn’t
do it again, nor advise any one else to.”

“Do what again?” asked Millicent.

“Oh, that smarty-cat business of not telling where I was at the hour
of the crime. Of course, being right there at home, I knew they’d have
to prove it, but it was sheer, silly bravado that made me refuse to
speak plainly and tell my own story. And, now, that the case is
farther along, I’ll tell you, Phil, you make a mistake if you try that
fool game. Speak up, man, where were you?”

“Why,” Barry spoke slowly, “I left the Club with you.”

“I know you did. We walked together down to your street,
Forty-fourth—and then you turned off and I went on down home. What
did you do next?”

“Nothing. Just dressed for dinner.”

“Hold on, there was a long time in there. We parted about six, and
dinner was at eight. Dressing all the time?”

“Yes—yes, I think so. Or in my room, anyway.”

“Anybody see you?”

“Oh, I don’t know. Let up Pollard, I won’t be quizzed!”

“I’m not quizzing you, old chap, but I’m warning you that others will.
What you tell me about this letter, doesn’t sound good to me. I don’t
say you wrote it, but I do say the experts will know—and if they
prove it on you—the letter I mean—you’ll be questioned, and mighty
closely, too.”

“But I didn’t do anything—I’m not afraid of being questioned.”

“All right, son. Neither was I. And when they questioned my hotel
people they were satisfied of my innocence. If you’re fixed like that,
you’re all right, too.”

Barry looked thoughtful. Pollard watched him, though not seeming to do
so. This letter business sounded queer to them all.

Phyllis and Louis watched Barry in silence, but Millicent exclaimed:

“Did you do it, Phil? Oh, say you didn’t. I can’t stand suspense—tell
me the truth.”

“No, Millicent, of course, I didn’t kill your brother,” Barry said;
“nor did I write him a letter saying I would do anything——”

“That’s enough, Barry,” Pollard said, cordially. “I wouldn’t ask you
myself, but since you make that statement, that’s all I want to know.
Now, about that money, Miss Phyllis. I’m sure I can get it for you
inside of forty-eight hours. Will that do?”

“Yes,” and Phyllis gave him a grateful look. “I hate to ask you, but
Mr Lane only laughs when I talk to him, and tells me not to be
impatient.”

“Most girls are impatient,” Pollard smiled. “Very well, then, I’ll
bring it to you day after tomorrow—or tomorrow, if possible.”

And then, to their surprise, Prescott returned, and asked Barry to go
with him to the District Attorney’s office, which, perforce, and with
a bad grace, Philip Barry did.

“Oh, say you think he is innocent,” Phyllis begged of Pollard, after
Barry’s departure.

“I would say so,” Pollard returned, “but if that note is proved to be
from him, it looks a little dubious.”




CHAPTER XI

Miss Adams Again


“Everything looks dubious!” Millicent exclaimed. “I do think it’s a
shame! Here the days are flying by and absolutely nothing done toward
discovering who killed my brother! Unless the police achieve something
soon, I shall get a private detective.”

“Oh, they’re no good,” Louis advised her. “They’re terribly expensive
and they make a lot of trouble and never get any results, anyway.”

“You speak largely, Louis,” Pollard said, smiling at the boy. “Do you
know all that from experience?”

“No, not exactly; but I’ve gathered some such convictions from what
I’ve heard of private detectives as a class.”

“What about Phil Barry and that letter?” Phyllis asked, her great eyes
full of a troubled uncertainty.

“He must have written it,” Louis declared. “Isn’t that right,
Pollard?”

“I don’t see any way out of it. It is most surely his signature, and
he often writes on that old machine. Also, he did have a grouch about
Mr Gleason’s attentions to Miss Lindsay—that I know. But, I don’t for
a minute think he meant to kill Gleason and I don’t think he did. But
the note will make him a lot of trouble.”

“You still suspect some Western friend?” said Millicent, looking
earnestly at Pollard.

“Scarcely a friend! But I do think that’s a reasonable supposition,
for I can’t see any real indication anywhere else.”

At this point Lane arrived, and joined in the wonderment about Barry.

“It’s most surely his signature,” Lane said, “I know it as well as I
know my own—and it’s no forgery. Why should it be a forgery, anyway?
Supposing the murderer to be a Western man, or a chorus girl, or even
Doctor Davenport, who has most foolishly been mentioned in this
connection, why should he write a note and forge Barry’s name to it?”

“To throw suspicion on Phil,” said Louis, simply.

“Yes, of course, but, I mean, how could it be done? Your Western
stranger or your chorus girl can’t get into the Club to use that
machine—”

“Are you positive the note was written on that typewriter?” asked
Pollard, thoughtfully.

“Yes; I looked it up. There are some broken letters that don’t print
well, and that makes it unmistakable. Now Davenport could get access
to the typewriter, of course, but I can’t see old Doc sitting down and
writing that note and forging Barry’s name! Can you?”

“No”; and Pollard smiled at the idea. “But Davenport and Barry hate
each other like poison.”

“Yes, they’ve an old quarrel, something about a Picture Exhibition
where Doc is a director, and didn’t fall down and worship Barry’s
pictures. But that’s not enough to make a man kill.”

“No. Yet it was a deep full-fledged quarrel—rather more than you
represent it. However, I say, grant Barry wrote the note—which he
must have done, but don’t hold it as proof positive of murder.”

“What else could he have meant by it?” Millicent asked, her eager face
demanding reply.

“Well, as we are assuming he meant Miss Lindsay—and we’ve no real
right to assume that,” Pollard smiled at the girl, “we may say he only
meant to cut Gleason out, and gaining the lady’s hand himself, make it
impossible for Gleason to hope any more.”

“That’s an idea,” Lane said, “but you’d hardly think if that was in
Barry’s mind he would have worded his note just as he did.”

“Yes he would,” put in Louis. “Barry’s a temperamental chap, and he’d
say anything. I know him—I like him, but he does do and say queer
things.”

“All artists do,” Pollard observed.

Millicent and Lane went off to another room to discuss some business
matters and Louis followed.

“I’m glad you didn’t mention that money before Lane,” Pollard said;
“it’s wiser not to.”

“Why?” and Phyllis looked at him curiously. But her eyes fell before
his gaze, and a faint blush rose to her cheek.

“Because—forgive me if I seem intrusive—because I think you want it
for a purpose you don’t care to talk about. And if so, the least said
the better.”

“You’re right, Mr Pollard,” and Phyllis looked troubled, “I don’t want
anything said about it. Also, I don’t want it in a check—that I
should have to endorse. Can’t I have cash?”

“Why, yes—if necessary. But it is wiser to have a check for your own
safety and security. Shall you get a receipt?”

“I—I suppose so—I never thought of that.” The lovely face was so
anxious and worried that Pollard’s deepest sympathy was roused.

“Let me help you further,” he said, impulsively. “Oh, Phyllis, confide
the whole story to me. I’m sure I can help—and you can trust me.”

The frank glance that accompanied these words was also tender and
appealing. Phyllis knew at once that here was a friend—even more than
a friend—but at any rate, a man she could trust.

“I can’t tell you,” she said, hesitatingly, “for it isn’t all my secret.
I wish I could speak plainly—but——”

“That’s all right; don’t tell me anything you’re in honor bound not
to. But let me know what you can of the circumstances and let me
advise you. Can’t I pay the money whenever it is due, and bring you a
receipt—and so save you unnecessary embarrassment?”

“Oh, if you could do that!” Phyllis’ eyes shone with gratitude and
pleasure at the thought of thus having her burden shared.

But Lane’s return to the room precluded further planning just then.

“Pollard,” Lane said, “I’m beginning to think things look a bit dark
for Phil Barry.”

“As how?”

“Not only that letter business, which is, to my mind very serious, but
other things. Merely straws, perhaps, but they show the direction of
the wind. Mrs Lindsay told me that Barry said he saw you, Pollard,
to-day, down in the vicinity of the Gleason house. Then, Mrs Lindsay
said, you came in here and said you had been at home all day.”

“So I have,” Pollard returned, staring at Lane.

“Well, here’s the funny thing. Only yesterday, Barry told me that he
had seen you over in Brooklyn—”

“Brooklyn! I never go there!”

“Well, Barry said he saw you there. Now, it’s quite evident to me,
Barry is lying, and it must be in some endeavor to get you mixed up in
the Gleason matter.”

“It looks a little like that—but, how absurd! Why should he say he
saw me in Brooklyn?”

“I don’t know. You weren’t there?”

“No; I almost never go to Brooklyn, and I certainly was not there
yesterday. I haven’t been there for a year, at least!”

“I’m not quite on to Barry’s game, but there’s two cases where he
falsified in the matter of seeing you. Now, why?”

“I say why, too. I can’t see any reason for the Brooklyn yarn. I
suppose I can see a reason for his saying he saw me down in Washington
Square, if he means to try to fasten the crime on me. But, the
Brooklyn story I see no sense in. What do you think, Lane?”

“I begin to think Barry’s the guilty man, though up to now, I had
quite another suspicion.”

“A definite one? A person?”

“Yes, decidedly so. And I’ve no reason to give up my suspicion—except
that Barry has loomed up more prominently than my suspect.”

“Speak out—who’s your man?”

“Yes, Mr Lane, tell us,” Phyllis urged.

“No; not at present. It’s some one whose name has not even been
breathed in connection with the case, and if I suspect him wrongly it
would be a fearful thing to say so.”

“All right, if that’s the way of it, better keep it quiet.” Pollard
nodded his head. “Been all through Gleason’s papers?”

“Yes; and I can’t find any letters from any one out West or anywhere
else who would seem a likely suspect. No old time feuds, or
present-day quarrels. If we except Barry.”

“And me.”

“You haven’t a quarrel with him, Pollard—or had you?”

“I had not. I never saw him more than three times, I think. And when I
said——”

“Yes, I know what you said, and why. Don’t harp on that, Pol, but try
to help me out in this Barry business. Can you see Barry going down
there and shooting Gleason?”

Pollard was still for a minute; then he said:

“I suppose you mean, can I visualize Barry doing the thing. No, I
can’t. To begin with, he hasn’t the nerve.”

“Oh, some quiet, inoffensive men pick up nerve on occasion.”

“Well, then, he hadn’t sufficient motive.”

“A lady in the case is frequently the motive.”

“I daresay. Well, here’s a final disclaimer. I was with Barry myself
until about six o’clock that night. I hold he wouldn’t have had time
to go down to Gleason’s after I left him, and get back and appear at
Miss Lindsay’s at dinner time, quite unruffled and correct in dress
and demeanor.”

“Are you sure he did do this?”

“Certainly; I was there myself.”

“But he left you, say, at six. Dinner was at eight. Seems to me that
was time for all.”

“Yes, if he rushed matters. It would, of course, imply premeditation.
He would have had to get down to Gleason’s quickly—hold on, the
telephone message was received at Doctor Davenport’s office at about a
quarter to seven—I remember the detective harped on that.”

“All right. Say he did commit the crime at about six-thirty, or
quarter to seven, that would give him time to get home and to the
dinner at eight. It all fits in, I think.”

“I suppose it does,” Pollard agreed, slowly. “But, that would mean
that when he left me that afternoon, or evening—about six o’clock,
anyway, he had this thing all planned, and rushed it through. I submit
that if that were so, he would have been excited, or preoccupied, or
something. On the contrary, Lane, he was as calm and casual as we are
this minute. I can’t see it—as I said in the first place.”

Then Phyllis spoke.

“It’s this way, Mr Lane,” she said; “I happen to know that Phil Barry
told two untruths—or else, Mr Pollard did. I mean, Phil said, he saw
Mr Pollard twice, in places where he himself says he was not. Now
shall I believe the one or the other?”

“Choose,” said Pollard, smiling at her.

“But, Miss Lindsay,” Lane said, “don’t choose because of your faith in
one man or the other. Choose by rational deduction from
circumstances.”

“That’s just what I want to do,” Phyllis replied. “And here’s how it
looks to me. Phil Barry didn’t tell the truth or else Mr Pollard
didn’t. Now, Mr Pollard has no reason to prevaricate, and Phil, if
guilty, has. Therefore—and yet, I can’t believe Phil shot Mr
Gleason.”

“I can,” Millicent exclaimed. “I see it all now. Phil’s madly in love
with you, Phyllis—as who isn’t? I don’t know what it is, child, but
you seem to set all men wild, and you so demure and sweet! Well, it’s
common knowledge that Phil adores you. And we all know my brother did.
Now the theory or hypothesis or whatever you call it, that Phil was
jealous of Robert and killed him—after sending him that warning
letter—is, to my mind the only tenable theory and one that proves in
every detail. For, granting Phil Barry is the criminal, the letter is
explainable, the stories he told about Mr Pollard are explainable, and
the whole thing becomes clear.”

“Millicent,” Phyllis said, looking at her seriously, “you are only too
ready to assume the guilt of any one you suspect at the moment. I
admit your theory, but—I can’t believe Phil did it!”

“No,” cried Millicent, “because you are in love with Phil! That’s the
reason you won’t look facts in the face! I declare, Phyllis, you have
more interest in your foolish love affairs than in discovering the
murderer of my brother! But I am determined to find the villain who
shot Robert Gleason! I shall find him—I promise you that! I am not
mercenary, I shall devote every last cent of my money—or my brother’s
money to tracking down the murderer.”

“Do you know,” said Pollard, quietly, “it seems to me that we all look
at this thing too close by. I mean, too much from a personal
viewpoint. You, Mrs Lindsay, want to find your brother’s murderer, but
you, Phyllis, and you, Louis, are more interested in whether friends
of yours are implicated or not. Isn’t that so, Lane?”

“Yes,” agreed Fred Lane. “But, see here, Pollard, I’m laying aside
this personal interest you speak of, and I’m trying to go merely and
solely by evidence. Now, I think that the evidence against Phil Barry
is pretty positive.”

“Well, I don’t,’” Pollard disagreed with him. “It is, in a way—but,
good Lord, man, lots of people may write to a person without intending
to kill him.”

“Not a letter like Barry’s.”

“Yes, just that. Oh, for Heaven’s sake, use a little intelligence! If
Barry had meant to kill Gleason, do you suppose he would have written
that letter? Never!”

“Yes, I think he would.” Lane spoke slowly and thoughtfully. “You see,
Pol, you’re tarred with the same brush—I mean the artistic
temperament, and you ought to see that a man’s mind works
spasmodically. Barry had the impulse to kill, I hold, and he wrote
that warning letter as—well, as a salve to his conscience, and there
it is.”

Meantime, Detective Prescott was on the job. He had taken Barry down
to the Washington Square house, but not to Robert Gleason’s apartment.

It was Miss Adams’ doorbell he rang, and to her home he escorted
Philip Barry.

Barry’s anger had subsided from belligerent altercation to a subdued
sullenness.

“You’ll be sorry for this,” he told Prescott, but as that worthy had
often been similarly warned, he paid little attention.

“Now, Miss Adams,” said Prescott, when they were in the presence of
the spinster. “I want you to tell me whether this is the man whom you
saw go into Mr Gleason’s apartment that afternoon.”

Miss Adams scanned Barry carefully.

They were all standing, and as the lady looked him over, Barry turned
slowly round, as if to give her every opportunity for correct
judgment.

“Thank you,” she said, quite alive to his sarcastic intent. “No, Mr
Prescott, this is not the man.”

“Are you sure?” Prescott was disappointed, not because he wanted to
prove Barry guilty of the crime, but because Miss Adams’ negative made
it imperative for him to hunt up another man. For the caller of that
afternoon must be found.

“Why, I’m pretty sure. Though, of course, clothes might make a
difference.”

“You said the man who came wore a soft hat.”

“Yes; but it was a different color from Mr Barry’s. It was a dull
green—olive, I think.”

“It was after dark when he came, wasn’t it?”

“Yes; but the hall was lighted and I saw him clearly. But a man may
have two hats, I suppose.”

“I haven’t,” said Barry, shortly. “That is, I haven’t two hats that I
wear in the afternoon. This is the only soft felt I possess.”

The hat he wore was of a medium shade of gray, an inconspicuous soft
hat of the latest, but in no way, extreme fashion.

“That’s nothing,” Prescott said. “A man can buy and give away a lot of
hats in a week. Size him up carefully, Miss Adams; your opinion may
mean a lot. Never mind the hat. How does Mr Barry’s size and shape
compare with the man you saw?”

“Mr Barry is a heavier man,” the lady said, decidedly; “also I feel
sure, an older man. The man I saw was slighter and younger.”

“Did you see his face?”

“No.”

“Yet you’re sure he was younger?”

“Yes, I am. He was of slighter build, and a little taller, and he
walked with a jauntier step, almost a run, as he came up the stairs.”

“You are very observant, Miss Adams.”

“Not so very. I took him in at a glance, and he impressed me as I have
stated. I have a retentive memory, that’s all. I can see him now—as
he bounded up the stairs.”

“In a merry mood?”

“I don’t know as to that. But the impression he gave me was more that
of a man in haste. He tapped impatiently at the door of Mr Gleason’s
apartment, and when it was not opened instantly, he rapped again.”

“And then Mr Gleason opened it?”

“Then somebody opened it. I couldn’t see who. The man went in quickly
and the door was closed. That’s all I know about it.”

Miss Adams sat down then, and folded her hands in her lap. She was
quite serene, and apparently not much interested in the matter.

A fleeting thought went through the detective’s mind that possibly
Barry had interviewed her before and had persuaded or bribed her to
say all this. But it seemed improbable.

Barry, too, was serene. He seemed satisfied at the turn events had
taken, and appeared to think that Miss Adams’ decision had cleared him
from suspicion.

Not so the detective.

“Well, Mr Barry,” he said, “we’ve got to find another man to fit that
olive green hat, it appears. But that doesn’t preclude the possibility
of your having been here that day, too. You didn’t hang over the
balusters all the afternoon, I suppose, Miss Adams.”

Offended at his mode of expression, the lady drew herself up
haughtily, and said, “I did not.”

“But you saw no one come in who might have been Mr Barry?”

“No.”

“Could he have come and you not have known it?”

Miss Adams was about to make a short reply, and then thought better of
it.

“I want to help you all I can,” she said, “and I am answering your
questions carefully. I suppose any one could have gone into Mr
Gleason’s apartment that day without my knowing it, but it is not
likely. For I was listening for the arrival of my niece, who, however,
did not come. I kept watch, therefore, until about six o’clock, or a
little after, then as I gave up all hope of my niece’s coming, I also
ceased to watch or listen. Anybody may have come after that. I don’t
know, I’m sure.”

Prescott ruminated. Whoever killed Robert Gleason may well have
arrived after six o’clock. For the telephone call didn’t reach the
doctor until about quarter of seven, and if it were Barry, it must be
remembered he didn’t part company with Pollard until six or after.

It would seem then, that Miss Adams’ testimony amounted to little,
after all. However, the man with the green hat ought to be found.

“Tell us again of the young man,” Prescott said. “See if you can
describe him so we can recognize some one we know.”

Miss Adams thought a moment, and then said: “No, I can’t. He just
seemed to me like a young chap, an impulsive sort, who ran in to see a
friend. He came upstairs hastily, yet not in any merriment—of that
I’m sure. Rather, he gave me the effect of a man anxious for the
interview—whatever it might be about.”

“Didn’t he ring the lower bell? Why wasn’t Mr Gleason at his own door
when the chap came up?”

“I don’t know. I think he must have rung Mr Gleason’s bell down
stairs, for the front door opened to admit him. But Mr Gleason didn’t
open his own door until the visitor had rapped twice. Of that I’m
certain.”

“Do you think the girl who came before the young man did was still in
Mr Gleason’s apartment?”

“Why, I don’t know.” Miss Adams seemed suddenly more interested.
“Maybe she was. Maybe she didn’t want to be seen there. Maybe——”

She paused, and sat silent. Prescott gave her a minute or two, to
collect herself, for he felt sure there would be some further
disclosure.

Meantime Barry had taken an envelope from his pocket, and was rapidly
sketching on it. A very few lines gave a distinct picture of a young
man.

“Does that look like the man you saw?” he asked, holding it so that
Miss Adams could see it, but Prescott could not.

“That’s the man himself!” she exclaimed, her eyes wide with
astonishment.




CHAPTER XII

Louis’ Confession


Before Prescott could snatch at the paper picture to do so, Barry had
torn the paper into bits and thrown them into the fire in the
old-fashioned grate.

He laughed at the detective’s chagrin, and said, “Nothing doing,
Prescott. If the man I sketched is the criminal, you must find it out
for yourself. If not, I’d be mighty sorry to drag his name into it.”

“I deduce, then, that his name is not already in it,” Prescott
returned; “in that case, I can guess who it is.”

“Guess away,” Barry said, not believing the statement. “I’ll only tell
you the man I drew on that paper bore no ill will toward Gleason, so
far as I know. And, moreover, the fact of his coming here, and running
upstairs, doesn’t necessarily prove him a murderer.”

“Tell me more of his appearance, Miss Adams,” urged Prescott, hoping
Barry’s sketch had refreshed her memory.

For Philip Barry had a knack of characterization, and with a few lines
could give an unmistakable likeness.

But the spinster could tell no more in words than she had already done
and Prescott was forced to be content with a vague idea of a young man
who ran lightly upstairs.

“Was it Louis Lindsay?” he asked, suddenly, but the non-committal
smile on Barry’s face gave him an impression that this was a wrong
assumption.

At Prescott’s request, Barry accompanied him to Gleason’s rooms.

The detective had a key and they went in. Except for some tidying up,
nothing had been disturbed since the day of the crime. The rather
commonplace furnishings were in direct contrast to the personal
belongings which were still in evidence.

There were pictures and ornaments, books and smoking paraphernalia
that had been selected with taste and good judgment.

The desk, too, was a valuable piece of furniture, and fitted with the
best of writing appointments.

“Any more letters from you here?” Prescott said, as if casually, while
he took a bundle of papers.

“Probably,” Barry returned, shortly; “if one could be forged, more
could be.”

“Look here, Mr Barry,” the detective said, seriously, “just explain,
will you, how that letter could have been forged? Experts have
concluded that the signature is yours. They say it is impossible that
your very distinctive autograph could have been written freehand, as
it evidently is, by any one but yourself. If it were traced or copied,
some deviation would appear. Now, granting that, there is still a
possibility that some one, evilly disposed, might have written the
typed message above your signature. But how do you explain that? Did
you ever sign a blank sheet of paper? Club paper?”

“Never!” Barry declared. “Why should I do such a thing?”

“Why, indeed! Yet, if you didn’t, the letter must be all yours. Why
not admit it? The admission, to my mind, would be less incriminating
than the denial.”

“But I didn’t write it,” Barry insisted. “I didn’t type it, or sign
it.”

“Then the murderer did,” Prescott nodded his head, sagaciously. “Can
you make it out? I mean, can you suggest how it could be done? If you
had ever signed a blank sheet, it would be easy for him to write on
it, you see——”

“Of course I never did! If I had done such an inexplicable thing I
should remember it! No; I can’t suggest how it was done. It is to me
an insoluble problem, and I admit I’m curious. But I never saw that
letter until you showed it to me.”

Barry’s straightforward gaze went far toward convincing Prescott of
his truthfulness, but he only said:

“If you’re the criminal, you’d be smart enough to throw that very
bluff. I don’t believe you are—but—I don’t know. You see, if you’d
admit the letter, you could more easily establish your innocence——”

“No; Prescott, I couldn’t establish my innocence by telling a lie. I
am innocent, and I know nothing about that letter. Now, work from
those facts and see where you come out.”

“Just here,” and Prescott faced him. “If those are facts, then the
murderer forged that letter to hang the crime on you. Never mind now,
how he forged it, merely assume he did so. Then, we must infer, the
murderer is one who has access to the Club typewriter——”

“Well,” Barry was thinking quickly, “here’s a suggestion—if, as you
say, the impossible was accomplished, and that letter was forged by
some one with Club privileges, why not Gleason himself?”

Prescott stared. “Robert Gleason? Forge the letter?”

“As well as any one else. He hated me—suppose it was suicide——”

“Oh, bah! it wasn’t suicide! That man had all there is of it to live
for! He had wealth, and he hoped to win Miss Lindsay for his bride.
Don’t tell me he thought of suicide! Absurd!”

“That’s so,” and Barry dismissed the idea, “But say he knew he was
doomed and wrote the letter to get me in bad.”

“Flubdub! Though, wait—if Mr Pollard’s idea is correct, and the
murderer should be some Western friend—or foe—and, just suppose,
say, that he threatened Gleason’s life so definitely that Gleason knew
he was doomed, and so——”

“And so he manufactured evidence that he hoped would incriminate me?”
Barry spoke thoughtfully. “Ingenious, on your part, Prescott, but I
can’t think it. The letter is too elaborate, too difficult of
achievement. In fact, I can’t see how anybody did it!”

“Nor can I!” Prescott turned on him. “And nobody could do it, Mr
Barry, except yourself. You’ve overreached the mark in denying it. The
forgery of that letter is an impossibility! Therefore, you wrote it.”

“Does that argue me the criminal?”

“Not positively. But your denial of the letter helps to do so! If you
wrote it, and denied it at first, through fear, you are now, of
course, obliged to stick to your denial. But, criminal or not, that
letter was written and sent by yourself.”

“You’re wrong, Mr Prescott; but as I can’t even imagine who did it or
who could have done it, there’s small use in our arguing the subject.”

And there was something in his tone of finality that helped to
convince Prescott of his entire innocence.

The poor detective was at his wits’ end. Every way he looked, he
seemed to be peering into a blind alley. Conferences with his
colleagues or his superiors helped him not at all. Lack of evidence
brought all their theories to naught. Unless something more could be
discovered the case seemed likely to go unsolved. Or, and this
troubled Prescott, unless something was discovered soon, the impulsive
and impatient Mrs Lindsay would employ a private detective. And that
would be small credit to the work of the force. So Prescott worked
away at his job. He went over the letters and papers in the desk, but
these gave him no further clew. There was no other communication from
Barry, though that, in itself, proved nothing. Yet had there been
another it would have been edifying to compare the two.

“No clews,” Prescott lamented, looking hopelessly about the room.

“No,” Barry agreed. “This detective work is queer, isn’t it?—— Now in
story-books, the obliging criminals leave all sorts of interesting
bits of evidence or indications of their presence.”

“Yes, but real criminals are too canny for that. Not even a
fingerprint on the telephone or revolver, except Gleason’s own. And
that, though meant to indicate a suicide, proved only a diabolically
clever criminal!”

“How do you explain the telephone call after the man was fatally
shot?”

Prescott grunted. “An impossibility like that can be explained only by
the discovery of facts not yet known. Maybe the doctors diagnosed
wrong——”

“No, not Ely Davenport!” Barry declared.

“Well, then, maybe the man telephoned before he was shot, but was
positive the shot was coming.”

“Telephoned in the presence of the murderer?”

“Oh, I don’t know! Didn’t I tell you nothing could explain that but to
discover some _new_ facts? I haven’t got ’em yet!”

“Do you expect to?”

“Honest, Mr Barry, I don’t know. A case like this—so full of queer
and unexplainable conditions may suddenly become clear—or, it may
never do so!”

“Isn’t that true of every case?”

“Well, I mean some unexpected clew may drop from the skies and clear
it all up at once, or it may never be solved at all. Most cases can be
worked out piece by piece, and require only patience and perseverance;
but when you strike the work of a super-criminal, as this certainly
is, then you have to wait for chance to help you. And that’s mighty
uncertain!”

“Well, I’ll help you, Prescott, to this extent. I won’t leave town and
I’ll always be where you can find me. If you believe me, you can call
off your shadowers—if you don’t, let them keep on my trail. But as to
any startling clew or evidence I can’t promise to give you any.”

“Even if you get it yourself?” said the detective, quickly.

“You have uncanny intuition!” exclaimed Barry. “I didn’t say that.”

“Be careful about compounding a felony, sir.”

“Be careful about suspecting an innocent man,” returned Barry, and
went away.

The artist went to the Lindsay home, but not finding Louis there,
followed his trail to the Club.

Getting him into a secluded corner, Barry asked him abruptly: “Were
you at Gleason’s the afternoon of the murder?”

“No; why?” was the reply, but the nervous agitation the boy showed
seemed not to corroborate his statement.

“Because I’ve been told you were. Come across, Louis. Take my
advice—there’s nothing to be gained from falsification. Own up, now.
You were there.”

“Yes, Phil, I was. But don’t let it be known—for I didn’t do for old
Gleason—truly I didn’t! Any more than you did!”

“Of course, Louis—neither of us killed that man. But I tell you it’s
better to tell the truth.”

“But I won’t be believed——” Louis whimpered like a child. “Don’t
tell on me, Phil. Who said I was there?”

“You were seen to go in.”

“By whom?”

“A tenant on another floor. Better come clean, boy. What were you
there for?”

“The old reason. I wanted money.” Louis spoke sullenly, and his dark
eyes showed a smoldering fire. “I was in bad——”

“Oh, Louis, gambling again?”

“Quit that tone, Barry. You’re not my father confessor!”

“You’d better have one. Don’t you see you’re ruining your life—and
breaking your sister’s heart—not that you’d care! You are a selfish
little beast, Louis! I’ve no use for you! But, listen, unless you tell
the truth when you’re questioned, I warn you, it’ll go hard with you.
Promise me this; if you’re asked, admit you were there. If you’re not
asked, do as you like about withholding the information.”

“I’ll do as I like, anyway,” and young Lindsay’s eyes showed an ugly
light, though his glance at Barry was furtive rather than belligerent.

“Of course you will, pighead!” Barry was thoroughly angry. “Now, tell
me this; were you at Gleason’s at the time Ivy Hayes was there?”

“No! What do you mean?” the astonishment was real. “When was she
there?”

“Oh, she didn’t kill Gleason. Don’t worry about that. But it does seem
as if a great many people chose that day to call on the Western
millionaire.”

“And all for the same purpose!” Louis shot out, with a sudden incisive
perception.

“Of course,” Barry said, contemptuously; “I dare say I’m the only
suspect who can’t be accused of killing the old man for lucre.”

“He wasn’t so awful old—and, I say, Barry, who else is suspected
_but_ you?”

“You!” Barry flashed back. “Or you will be! I meant to warn you in
kindness, Louis, but you’re so ungrateful, I’ll let you alone. Better
be careful, though.”

Louis sulked, so Barry left him, and went away. He went to Fred Lane’s
office, and demanded an interview alone with the lawyer.

“What’s up?” Lane asked him.

“Oh, nothing. That’s the worst of it. I don’t believe, Lane, that
they’ll ever get at the truth of the Gleason murder.”

“Then they’ll railroad you to the chair,” said Lane, cheerfully.

“What about the letter, Lane? Can you see through it?”

“No, I can’t. You wrote that signature, Phil; now think back and see
how or when you could have done it?”

“Don’t be absurd! I couldn’t have done it, except as a signature to
that very letter, and I didn’t do that.”

“But——”

“But, look here, Lane—just supposing somebody wanted to blacken my
name—in this connection. What a roundabout way to take! Imagine some
one writing that screed on the Club typewriter, and managing somehow
to get my signature on it—could it be done with a transfer paper, or
something of that sort?”

“Don’t think so—it would be backward, then, wouldn’t it?”

“Why, yes——”

“But did nobody ever persuade you to sign a sheet of blank paper?
Wanted your autograph, or that sort of thing?”

“Never! I’m not a celebrity!”

“Well, here’s an idea! Did anybody ever get you to sign a paper
written in pencil? Then, he could rub out the pencil marks and type in
the letter?”

“No, smarty! Why, that has been suggested by some one. But the expert
said that the pencil marks would show, even if carefully erased.”

“You mean the erasure would leave its traces. That’s right, it would.
And if ever there was a genuine looking letter that’s one.”

“On the surface, yes. But if I were a detective, I would note at once
that the letter itself is not in a phraseology that I would use——”

“And if I were a detective, I should note that, too, and set it down
as a further proof of your cleverness!”

“Hello, Lane, are _you_ convinced of my guilt?”

“Not a bit of it, but I am frankly puzzled about that letter. It’s so
positively Club paper, Club typewriter, your signature—what’s the
answer?”

“I’ll find out—I swear I will!”

“If you don’t, old chap, it’ll go hard with you, I fear.”

“As a starter, I’m going to see that Hayes girl. No, I don’t think
she’s implicated, but I may be able to get something new.”

“Go ahead. Sound her and you may, at least, find some new way to look.
Louis Lindsay never did it——”

“Oh, no, I know that! He’d hardly have nerve to kill a fly!”

To the home of Ivy Hayes Barry went next.

The girl willingly saw him, and seemed glad to discuss the matter.

After some preliminary conversation and as Barry grew more definite in
his queries, she began to be a little frightened, and was less frank
in her responses.

“You came to see me before, Mr Barry,” she said, “and I told you then
all I knew about this thing. Now, I’ve no more to tell.”

“I think you have. I remember the other time I was here, you had a
sudden recollection, or thought, and you gave a startled exclamation.
What was that thought?”

“As if I could recall! I suppose I was nervous—I often jump like
that. It’s—it’s temperament, you know.”

“It was more than that. You did think of something that gave you a new
idea regarding Mr Gleason’s murder or murderer. Now, don’t say you
didn’t, for I know it. Come across, Ivy, tell me what it was—or you
may get in deep yourself.”

“Tell me this, Mr Barry,” and the girl spoke quietly and earnestly;
“is there any danger of my being suspected? For, if so, I’ll tell
something. It’s awful mean to tell it—but I’ve got myself to look out
for—oh, no—no! I don’t know anything! Not anything!”

“You do. You’ve already proved it. Now, Ivy, I won’t exaggerate your
danger, but I’ll tell you that I think the only real suspects they
have, as yet, are you and me. As I’m not the criminal, and as I shall
do my very best to prove that, suspicion may come back on you. I don’t
say this to frighten you. I merely state the fact. So, don’t you think
yourself that you’d better tell me what you know, and I assure you
that I will use the knowledge with discretion.”

“Oh, I can’t tell,” and the girl burst into tears. “I can’t tell
anybody, and you least of all!”

Barry stared. What could such a speech mean?

“Please go away,” Ivy moaned. “Go away now, and come tomorrow. Then
I’ll decide what to do.”

“No,” Barry said sternly; “you know something, and you must tell me.
If you refuse I’ll go away, but I’ll send Mr Prescott here—and I’m
sure you’d rather tell me—wouldn’t you, Ivy?”

Barry’s tone was ingratiating, and too, his words carried conviction.
Ivy wiped her eyes and looked at him dolefully.

“I don’t know what to do. You see, for me to tell what I know would be
mean—oh, worse than mean—it would be too low down for words! And
yet—I don’t want to be arrested!”

“Then tell—tell me, my girl—you’ll feel better to tell it.”

Barry sensed the psychological moment, and knew he must get the story
out of Ivy, while she was frightened. If she really knew how little
she was suspected, she might never tell. And Barry felt it imperative
that her knowledge be revealed.

Persuaded by his urgency, Ivy began.

“Well, you see, I went there about half past five——”

“How do you know the time so well—most people don’t.”

“Oh, I don’t know how I know it, but I just happen to. I was due home
at six, so I went there at five-thirty, or within a few minutes of
that time. Does it matter?”

“No; go on.”

“Well, I rang the bell, you know, and the door clicked open and I went
up and Mr Gleason let me in.”

“Yes.”

“Well, I hadn’t been there hardly any time at all—not ten minutes,
anyhow, when Mr Gleason’s bell rang again. And I said, ‘Who is it?’”

“What made you think he would know who it was?”

“Don’t know as I did. Guess I just said it—but, anyway—he
said—‘It’s Miss Lindsay—I expect her—she mustn’t see you here!’”

“What did you do?”

“Why, he pushed me through into the dining-room——”

“He never used the dining-room——”

“Oh, he did sometimes. Well, anyway, the room was there—and he pushed
me in, and told me to go through the pantry and down the back stairs
and out that way.”

“Why did he push you? Weren’t you willing to go?”

“Yes, but I was rattled—bewildered. And, I’ve never seen Miss
Lindsay, and I was curious to see her. I didn’t mind being found in Mr
Gleason’s rooms, but he minded very much. And so he hurried me off,
and that’s when he told me he’d give me the bracelet, if I’d sneak off
without making a sound.”

“And did you?”

“Yes; but I waited a minute to try to see Miss Lindsay.”

“Did you see her?”

“No; the door opened the wrong way. I peaked through the crack, but I
couldn’t see her. I heard her, though.”

“You did?” Barry’s nerves were pounding, his heart beat fast, as he
listened for, yet dreaded her further speech.

“Yes, and I couldn’t make out a word she said, her voice was so low.
But they were quarreling—or at least discussing something on which
they didn’t agree.”

“What was it?” Barry controlled himself.

“I don’t know. Mr Gleason walked up and down the room as he talked—he
often did that—but it kept me from pushing the door a speck wider
open. In fact, he pushed it tight shut as he passed it.”

“Did he suspect you were there listening?”

“Oh, I don’t think so. He just closed it on general principles. Maybe
he thought I was there. But after that I couldn’t hear a word, so I
went through the pantry and down the back way.”

“Anybody see you?”

“I don’t think so.”

“You’re sure it was Miss Lindsay who was there?”

“Yes. I heard Mr Gleason say ‘my sister is your stepmother, I know,’
and again he said, ‘Yes, you’re Lindsay—you’re both Lindsays—but
I’ve made my will——’ that’s all I heard.”

“What time did you leave there?”

“It must have been about quarter to six, for I was home at six.”

“And Miss Lindsay was there when you left.”

“Oh, yes, she was there when I left.”

And then, Philip Barry’s secret fear was confirmed.




CHAPTER XIII

Philip and Phyllis


Philip Barry, though of the artistic temperament common to his
calling, had also a businesslike instinct that prompted him to
straight-forward measures in any case where he was specially
interested.

And he was deeply interested in learning that Phyllis had been at
Gleason’s rooms the afternoon of the murder, and he wanted the matter
cleared up to his own satisfaction.

Wherefore, he went to Phyllis herself and inquired concerning it.

“Were you at Mr Gleason’s that day?” was his somewhat direct way of
opening the conversation.

They were alone, in the Lindsays’ library, and Phyllis, looking demure
enough in a little white house gown, was in perverse mood.

“Good gracious, Phil, are _you_ beginning to suspect me? Go to
Millicent with your theories? She has thought from the first that I
shot her brother. Go over to her side, if you like.”

“I don’t like! It isn’t a question of ‘sides’! And if it is, of
course, I’m on your side. You know that, don’t you, Phyllis? You know
I’m for you, first, last and all the time.”

“Then help me, Phil, and sympathize, and don’t come rushing in here
and screaming out, ‘Was I at Mr Gleason’s when he was killed?’”

“I didn’t say that!”

“You did, practically. Now, what do you mean by it?”

“Why,” Barry hesitated, “why, I’ve been to see that——”

“Ivy Hayes?”

“Yes. And she said you were there.”

“Ivy Hayes said I was there! She must be crazy!”

“Weren’t you? Tell me you weren’t, Phyllis. I’ll be so glad to know
it. Where were you that afternoon, late? You never would say.”

“Why should I? I won’t say now, either, but I was not at Mr
Gleason’s.”

“Oh, then that’s all right.” Barry’s tense expression relaxed, and he
smiled. “Then that youngster made it all up. I fancied she did—just
to make a sensation.”

“Why—what did she say, exactly?” Phyllis looked ill at ease.

Barry couldn’t suspect her sincerity, but he watched her as he told of
his interview with Miss Hayes.

“She said I was there! That she was hidden in another room while I was
there! Why, I wasn’t there at all!”

“You didn’t go to Mr Gleason’s the day of—the day he died?”

“No, I’ve never been there! Why should I go? It isn’t my custom to go
to the homes of men I know. They call on me.”

“Of course, Phyllis—don’t get angry, dear. I didn’t think you’d go
there—but there might have been a reason—an errand, you know.”

“Well, there wasn’t. I wish you’d all stop trying to find out who
killed that man! What difference does it make? He’s dead, and it won’t
bring him to life to punish his murderer. I think Millicent is foolish
about it.”

“It’s natural, Phyllis, dear. It isn’t exactly revenge, but more an
avenging spirit. It’s human nature to demand a life for a life.”

“But it can’t be found out. If they do arrest somebody, it’ll most
likely be the wrong person.”

Phyllis looked very lovely as she drew her brows together in a
perplexed frown and then smiled.

“Oh, make them stop, Phil. If you advise Millicent, she’ll stop.”

“I’m afraid my sense of justice is too strong—” Barry began, but
Phyllis interrupted him:

“It _is_ too strong if it’s stronger than your wish to please
me,” and she pouted like a scolded child.

“Nothing in my heart is stronger than my wish to please you,” Barry
said, gravely, “and you know it, Phyllis. If you make it a condition,
I will most certainly suggest to Mrs Lindsay that she give up her
quest. But, such advice would be against my own better judgment.”

“But why, Phil?” Phyllis was coaxing now. “Don’t you feel sure they’ll
never find the murderer?”

“If they don’t, Phyllis, they’ll always suspect me.”

“What do you care—since you are innocent?”

“I care very much! Why, my dear girl, do you suppose I could carry
that burden all my life? Always go about, knowing that many people—or
even a few people suspected me of Robert Gleason’s murder? No; when I
think about it, I’m ready to move heaven and earth, if that were
possible, to find the true criminal!”

Phyllis shuddered and her face went white.

“Couldn’t you forget in time?” she said, bravely struggling to speak
steadily.

“Never! Why, Phyllis, that letter is enough to condemn me—only I
didn’t write it.”

“Didn’t you, really, Phil?”

The girl leaned forward, and looked into his eyes so earnestly that
Barry recoiled in amazement. Did she suspect him? Phyllis!

“Don’t!” he cried out, “don’t look as if you thought me guilty! You,
of all people!”

“Oh, I don’t,” she said, quickly, “but I thought you might have
written the letter, meaning something else. The fact of your writing
it doesn’t make you the criminal.”

“But I didn’t. Listen, Phyllis—I love you—oh, sweetheart, how I love
you! but I’ve resolved not to ask you for love, until I can offer you
an unstained name——”

“Your name isn’t stained! I won’t have you say such things!”

Her sweet smile was encouraging, but Barry shook his head:

“No, dear, you mustn’t even be kind to me. I can’t stand it! You know
my name _is_ affected until the mystery of that letter is
explained. It’s the most inexplicable thing! Why, look at it! We
fellows all discussed murder, and discussed Gleason and that very day
he was killed and that letter was found in his desk! It was a piece of
diabolical cleverness on somebody’s part!”

“But, Phil, just as an argument. How could anybody write that letter
but you?”

“I don’t see, myself. But somebody did do it. I’ve thought it over and
over. I’ve looked at this letter through a lens, but there’s no trace
of erased writing, nor any possibility of my signature having been
pasted into another sheet, or anything like that.”

“I’ve seen wonderful inlay work, where one piece of paper is joined to
another actually invisibly.”

“So have I, and I thought of that. But it wasn’t done in this case.
That sheet of paper—Club paper, is absolutely intact, it is typed
just as I type things-a little carelessly—and the signature is like
mine. I would say it is mine, only—I didn’t write it!”

“Maybe somebody hypnotized you.”

“No; I’ve never been hypnotized—nor has any one ever attempted such a
thing with me. It’s diabolical, as I said. But I’ll find out if it
takes my life time! Now, you see, dear, why I don’t want you to urge
me to stop investigation on the part of anybody. Besides, Mrs Lindsay
isn’t the only one eager to solve the mystery. The detectives, the
police, are as anxious as she is.”

“I don’t think so. I think they’re getting tired of having no results.
I think, if Millicent gave up the search, they soon would do so.”

“But why? Why, Phyllis, are you desirous of having it given up?”

“Oh, I don’t know! I’m tired of it, that’s all. And now, you’re
dragging me into it——”

“Phyllis, as you said to me—if you’re innocent, your name can’t be
harmed.”

“Well—suppose I’m not innocent—would you stop then?”

Barry stared at her. He thought at first her speech was merely an
outburst of the perversity which now and then showed in her volatile
nature. But her face was drawn and white and her eyes dark with a sort
of terror he had never before seen her show.

However, he saw no choice but to treat her speech lightly.

“Oh, yes, of course! But until you tell me you’re the villain of the
piece, I shan’t be able to believe it.”

“I didn’t like Mr Gleason.”

“Who did? Check up, now. If we’re to suspect all who didn’t like the
man, there’s Pollard, Davenport, you, me——”

“And Mr Pollard’s mythical Westerner. Oh, Phil, I wish _he_ could
be found!”

“Who? Pollard?”

“No; the man he thinks came from the West—an old acquaintance of Mr
Gleason’s.”

“Yes, he’s a fine suspect, but a bit intangible. Perhaps he wrote the
note I signed!”

“Don’t jest, Philip. I’m—I’m so miserable.”

Phyllis bowed her face in her hands and cried softly.

“Don’t—don’t, Phyllis, darling. For heaven’s sake, keep out of the
muddle.”

“But you dragged me into it! You came here checking up on my
movements. Why did you do that?”

“I told you why. Because Ivy Hayes said you were there.”

“Oh, yes—so she did. I forgot that. Well—maybe I was—maybe I
was——”

“Phyllis, hush. You’re talking wildly. And here’s another thing. Where
was Louis that afternoon?”

“Phil Barry, you stop! Are you going to accuse the whole family? Why
don’t you ask where Millicent was?”

“I ask about Louis because I’ve been told he was there.”

“And I was there! And Ivy Hayes was there! And the man from the West
was there! Quite a party!”

Phyllis laughed shrilly—not at all like her usual gentle laugh, and
Barry watched her in alarm, lest she grow hysterical.

“I won’t,” she said, divining his fear. “I’m not hysterical, but I’m
distracted. Oh, Phil, do help me!”

“Of course I will, little girl,” Barry held out his arms. “Come to me,
Phyllis, let’s forget all the horrible things of life and just love
each other—and belong.”

“No,” she drew away from him. “Not yet. If your name must be
cleared—so must mine.”

“But your name isn’t even mentioned.”

“Yes, it is,” Phyllis said, speaking in a dull, slow way, “yes, it
is—and the worst of it is, my name can’t be cleared.”

“Hush,” Barry cautioned, “somebody’s coming in.”

The street door closed, and a moment later, Manning Pollard made an
appearance.

The conversation, though general, was not spontaneous, and after a
short time, Barry took his leave. Though he did not consider Pollard
an actual rival of his in Phyllis’ favor, yet he felt disgruntled when
the other was present. And, too, he wanted to go off by himself to
think over what Phyllis had said.

He knew her too well to imagine for a moment that she was merely upset
by the whole situation and wanted the investigation to be stopped.

He knew she had some definite and imperative reason for begging him to
quit searching and also that she meant something when she said her own
name could not be cleared.

That remark, of course, could not be taken at its face value, but all
the same, it meant something—and he must find out what.

Manning Pollard was confronted with the same question.

Apparently unable to control her nervous fear, Phyllis said, at once:

“Oh, Mr Pollard, can’t you help me? I’m in such trouble. That Miss
Hayes says I was at Mr Gleason’s the day of the murder!”

“And were you?”

“No!—or, well, maybe I was. But that has nothing to do with it. Can’t
you hush up the Hayes girl? Must she tell of it, if I _was_
there?”

“It would be a pretty difficult matter to stop her mouth.”

“But if I paid her?”

“Ah, then you would get yourself in trouble! Don’t do anything of that
sort, I beg of you! Tell me all about it, Miss Lindsay. I’m sure I can
help—and if not, won’t it relieve you to talk it over? What is the
new development?”

“Oh, only that probably I shall next be suspected of the Gleason
murder!”

“Yes?” Manning Pollard didn’t look so intensely surprised as Phyllis
had anticipated.

“Oh, I know Millicent has foolishly said that I did it—but she didn’t
mean it. She’d suspect anybody from the mayor to the cook! But, now,
that little chorus girl—or whatever she is—has said that I was in
the room with Mr Gleason, when he——”

“When he was killed! Oh, no!”

“Why, she practically says that. It seems she was there herself.”

“She was there! When Mr Gleason was shot!”

“Oh, she couldn’t have been—could she? But—you see I don’t know
exactly what she said——”

“Then don’t try to quote her, but tell me what you do know. Did she
try to implicate you?”

“Yes—I think she did.”

“You’re not sure——”

“No; only she said I was there——”

“Were you?”

“I—I don’t want to tell you——”

“Miss Lindsay, don’t tell me—don’t tell anybody! If you were there
keep it to yourself—and if not—there’s no occasion to say so. I
understand what you’re trying to do. Keep it up. That’s why I invented
the Western man!”

“Invented him! You don’t really believe in him?”

“Oh, I suppose invented isn’t the right word. But—of course, I’ve no
proof of his existence. He _may_ well be a fact—or, again, he
may not be. I only say that there’s a possibility—even a probability
that Gleason _may_ have known somebody out there who came after
him here and killed him. Nobody can deny the possibility, at least.”

“No, of course not.”

“You’ve no idea of the identity of any such person?”

“I? Oh, no.”

“It would be a good thing if you could remember Mr Gleason’s having
told you of such a one.”

Phyllis looked up suddenly, and caught Pollard’s meaning glance. Could
it be? Was he hinting that she should make up some such story. It
couldn’t be!

“Why?” she said, quietly.

“I think you know,” he spoke gently, “but if you want me to put it
into words, I will. The Hayes girl has told several people—Mr
Prescott among them, that you were at the Gleason rooms about six
o’clock that night. Now, you know, you have refused to say where you
were at that time—and it is not surprising that their suspicions are
aroused. For you to deny being there would not be half so efficacious
as for you to turn the thoughts of the detectives in some other
direction. Suppose, for instance, you were to remember some man Mr
Gleason told you of. Some name—let us say—and suppose the detectives
set themselves to work to find the individual. If they can’t find him,
you harm nobody, and—you divert attention from yourself.”

Phyllis did not pretend to misunderstand. Nor did she treat the matter
lightly.

“You think I am in danger, then?” she asked.

“Oh, don’t say danger—I don’t like the word. But, your name will be
bandied about—will be in the papers—unless you quash the thing in
the beginning. You haven’t admitted you were there, but, suppose it is
proved that you were, and suppose you tell of this man, of whom Mr
Gleason spoke to you—spoke to you at that very time—and suppose your
story is that you were there about six—that you left soon after—and
that Mr Gleason was even then fearing the arrival of this enemy of
his.”

Again Phyllis looked him in the eyes.

Pollard was a magnetic man, his face inspired confidence, but more
than that, the girl read in the deep, dark eyes a troubled care for
herself—for her own safety and well-being.

She knew Pollard admired her—most of her men friends did, but only
now was she aware of his passionate love.

“It’s a terrible thing that I’m advising,” he said, in a whisper, “but
I realize the gravity of the situation. Phyllis—I care so much—so
much—and I can’t help seeing how things are tending. You know I have
no shadow of suspicion of you—my beautiful—my darling—but others
will—others will be swayed by the Hayes story, and—though you left
the place before Mr Gleason was killed—yet it must have been only
shortly before—and somebody did come in and kill him—so, why not
say——”

“I see your point, I see how I am endangered—even if I’m innocent. If
I’m innocent.”

“Why do you say that?” Pollard looked at her wonderingly. “At least,
don’t say it to me! And forgive my abruptness, but I must tell you how
I love you. I must ask you if you can’t love me—oh, Phyllis, even a
little? Do you, dear?”

“Please, Mr Pollard—please don’t say those things now—I’m
so-worried——” The soft eyes filled with unshed tears.

“I know it, my little girl—I know it—and that’s why—I want to be in
a position to help you—I mean I want to have a right—to let the
world know I have the right, to protect you. Will you give it to
me—Phyllis—will you?”

The big man leaned toward her, his attitude reverently affectionate,
and Phyllis felt wonderfully drawn to him. He was so capable, so
efficient, and though she felt a sense of potential mastery in his
manner, she did not resent it, but rather rejoiced in it.

“Oh,” she breathed, looking at him, with startled, shining eyes,
“oh—I can’t say—now. Don’t ask me now.”

“Yes, I shall—now—my beloved, my queen! Oh, you beautiful girl, you
may not love me yet, but I’ll make you—I’ll make you!”

The smile that accompanied the words took away any hint of tyranny,
and the pleading in Manning Pollard’s eyes was hard to resist.

But Phyllis hesitated. She didn’t know him so very well, and, too, she
had a feminine notion that to say yes at once would make her seem too
willing. Moreover, she wanted to think it over, alone, by herself.

She had always thought she loved Phil Barry—but somehow, in a moment
this insistent wooer had pushed Phil to the background.

“Not now,” she said, softly, as she gave him her hand, “I will think
about what you’ve said—but I can’t promise now.”

“No, dear, I understand,” and as Pollard’s strong fingers closed over
her own, Phyllis was almost certain what her eventual answer to him
would be. He was so gentle in his strength, so tender in his
manliness—and he seemed a real refuge for her in her uncertainties.

“But, here’s another thing,” he went on; “I hate to tell you, but the
question of your having been in Gleason’s room is bound to be
raised—and I want to say that I saw you—that afternoon at about six
o’clock. I tell you, so you won’t try any prevarication on me.”

The last was said with a good-natured smile, that gave a feeling of
camaraderie which delighted Phyllis’ heart. She didn’t want to give
herself irrevocably to Pollard—yet—but she was glad to have him for
a friend—and his frank, pleasant friendliness cheered her very soul.

“Where in the world did you see me?” she asked.

“At the crowded corner of Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street. I had
just left Phil Barry—we came down from the Club together—and I saw
you, in a cab—with a strange man. Who was he, Phyllis?”

The assured manner of his query was not lost on the girl, but she did
not resent it.

“Must I tell you?” she smiled.

“No—no, dear. But I wish you wanted to be frank with me—to confide
in me.”

“Oh, I will—I do—but—I can’t.”

“Then you needn’t—and, don’t look so distressed, my poor little girl.
Tell me only what you want to—just let me help in any way that you
want me to. And, Phyllis—I hate to make this proposition, but I must.
If anything happens—if anything is said that frightens you, or
troubles you deeply—will you—if you feel it would help you in any
way—will you say that you are engaged to me?”

“When I’m not!”

“You may consider that you are or not, as you wish; but I have an idea
that occasion might arise, when it would help you to announce the
engagement—to assert that you have some one to look after you. If you
want to break it later—that is, of course, your privilege.”

“Oh,” said Phyllis, looking at him, admiringly, “how good you are!
Nobody else would have thought of that!”

“Don’t misunderstand me. I want you—I want you to say yes to me for
keeps, some day. But in the meantime, if it ever should serve your
purpose, claim me as your fiance.”




CHAPTER XIV

Hester’s Statement


Pollard and Lane, sitting talking in the Club Lounge, were joined by
Dean Monroe.

“It’s a queer thing,” Monroe said, “that nobody gets any forrader in
the Gleason matter. What are police for? What are detectives for? And
most of all, what are we chaps for, if we can’t solve a mystery right
in our own set?”

“I don’t know that it matters, being in our own set,” Pollard began,
but Monroe interrupted:

“Yes, it does. We know all the principals——”

“Hold on,” Lane said; “what do you mean, principals? There’s the
principal character, the victim, himself, but further than that we
know no ‘principal.’”

“We don’t! Well, I should say we know most of the suspects.”

“Suspects don’t amount to much,” Pollard observed, “unless you can
hang more evidence on them than has been attached to anybody so far.”

“Evidence!” Monroe exclaimed; “what further evidence do you want than
that letter of Phil Barry’s?”

“Oho,” said Lane; “you’re out for Barry, are you? But, Pol, here
threatened to kill Gleason. That’s far more incriminating evidence to
my mind than Barry’s letter. For the letter may have been forged, but
Pollard said his words himself.”

“Oh, I know, but Manning was home in his rooms all the time, and
nobody knows where Phil was. Why don’t they find out?”

“Why don’t they find out anything?” Lane smiled. “Because they don’t
go to work with any intelligence.”

“You could solve the mystery, I suppose?” Monroe flung at him.

“I’d be afraid to try,” and Lane looked serious.

“Meaning?” Pollard asked.

“That investigation of a determined sort might lead to awful
conclusions.”

“Don’t say it!” Pollard cried. “I can’t help knowing what you mean,
but don’t breathe it, Lane. You know how a word—a hint—may start
suspicion. And there’s not a word of truth in it!”

“Who? Miss Lindsay?” Monroe asked, bluntly.

“Hush up, Dean,” Pollard growled.

“I won’t. And it’s silly to evade an issue. If there’s nothing in it,
drag it out into the light and prove there isn’t.”

“No,” Lane said, thoughtfully, “it isn’t wise to drag out anything
concerning the Lindsays—any of them. Not even Mrs Lindsay. They’re an
emotional lot, and if they get excited, they say all sorts of things.
If they must be questioned, it would better be by somebody with their
interests at heart, and the thing should be done quietly and with few
listeners.”

“Well, you go and do it, Lane,” Monroe suggested. “I feel sure unless
you do, the police will get ahead of you, and they’ll put Miss Lindsay
through the third degree——”

“Oh, nonsense. The police are hot on Barry’s trail. That chap’ll be
arrested very soon, I believe. Why, that letter is damning. How do you
explain it, except at its face value?”

“But what is its face value?” asked Pollard. “The letter doesn’t
threaten violent measures at all——”

“It implies something of the sort. And Barry has no alibi.”

“Of course not,” Pollard said; “an innocent man doesn’t have. I mean,
an innocent man is very likely not to know where he was at any given
time. It’s your criminal who has his alibi at his tongue’s end.”

“I’m going over to the Lindsay house now,” Lane said, rising. “Want to
go along, Pol?”

“No, not this time. If you’re going to quiz Miss Lindsay I’d rather
not be there. And you said yourself you’d rather be alone.”

“Right. But I’m going to ask Mrs Lindsay a few questions, too. After
all, she and Miss Phyllis are the only heirs.”

“Meaning one of them is doubtless the criminal!” Dean Monroe spoke
scornfully.

“Oh, I don’t say that,” Lane returned, “but there’s lots to see
about.”

Others than Lane were of this mind, for when the lawyer reached the
Lindsay home, he found Belknap and Prescott both there, and the
Lindsay ladies, as a result of their visitors’ questions, both in a
highly excited state.

“I’m glad to see you, Mr Lane,” Millicent cried, as Lane entered; “do
help Phyllis and me. These men are saying awful things to us!”

“To me,” Phyllis corrected. “They’ve nothing against you, Millicent.”

Phyllis looked exhausted. Apparently, she had had all she could stand
of the detectives’ grilling, and she was at the end of her
self-control.

“You must excuse me a few minutes,” she exclaimed, starting up, and
without another word she left the room.

“You were rather blunt, Prescott,” Belknap said. “You must remember
Miss Lindsay is a delicate, sheltered young lady, and unaccustomed to
hear such rough speech as you gave her.”

“No matter,” said Prescott, doggedly. “If she killed Gleason, such
talk is none too bad for her. And if she didn’t, it can’t hurt her.”

“What!” cried Lane. “Miss Lindsay kill Mr Gleason! Man, you must be
crazy!”

“Oh, no, not that,” Prescott said, quietly. “But when a young lady
goes to a man’s rooms half an hour before he is killed, when she at
that interview learns for the first time that she is heiress to half
his fortune, when she is overheard in altercation with the man a very
short time before he is shot, when no other person is seen there at
the time or anywhere near it, when the young lady doesn’t care much
for the man, when he wants to marry her—and she knows if she refuses
she’ll lose the inheritance—well, isn’t that about enough?”

“First,” asked Lane, “are your statements all proved facts?”

“Facts don’t have to be proved,” Prescott flared back. “But my
statements are facts, as you mostly know, yourself. We have Miss
Hayes’ word for it that Miss Lindsay was at Mr Gleason’s about six.”

“She says she wasn’t,” Millicent broke in, angrily.

“Now, look here, Mrs Lindsay,” said Belknap, “the very day of the
crime you accused Miss Lindsay. Why do you now try to defend her?”

“Oh, she never did it,” wailed Millicent. “Never! Never! When I said
she did, I was out of my head. Just at first, you know, I was so
stunned I scarcely knew what I was saying.”

“Well, you know now. Was Miss Lindsay here at home at six o’clock that
night?”

“I don’t know——”

“You do know. Answer.”

“Well, then, she wasn’t—but that doesn’t prove she was down in
Washington Square!”

“Leave us to do the proving. You answer questions.”

“Now, don’t frighten the lady,” Lane advised, frowning at the
detective’s manner. “She will answer your questions—or I will.”

“All right, then, you answer. What does Miss Lindsay want twenty
thousand dollars for—and in a hurry, too?”

“Does she want that sum?”

“She does; and she’s bound to get it. Wants her inheritance right off.
What for, I say?”

“And I say, I don’t know,” Lane replied. “But there are lots of things
the modern young woman wants money for——”

“Yes, but if they’re right and proper things, why won’t she tell what
they are? No matter if they’re extravagances or foolish luxuries, why
not say so? But if the destination of that twenty thousand can’t be
told—it’s clear there’s something wrong about it.”

“Meaning?”

“Meaning nothing but that. Something wrong—something shady—something
that must be covered up. Therefore, she had to have the money at once.
Therefore, she went to Robert Gleason for it. Therefore, he told her
he would give it to her on one condition—marriage.”

“Hold on, Prescott, do you know this?” Lane demanded.

Prescott jerked a finger toward Millicent Lindsay.

“She knows it,” he said. “She knows that for weeks Miss Lindsay had
kept Gleason dangling—waiting for her answer. Then, when the young
lady discovers she can get the money by the man’s death—and as she
really abhors him and doesn’t want to marry him—and as the
opportunity offers——”

“What opportunity?”

“The fact that she’s there alone with him in his rooms, his pistol
conveniently at hand, and nobody about——”

“Oh, you’re romancing! That girl! She couldn’t do it!”

“You know she could, Mr Lane,” Belknap interposed. “You say that
because you don’t want to think it. But the only thing that would
positively disprove it would be for Miss Lindsay to tell where she was
at the time. This she refuses to do.”

“Yes, and Manning Pollard refused to tell where he was———”

“But we found out where he was, without his telling us. To prove where
a man was by outside witnesses, many of them, is proof, when his own
statement is far from proof. Now if we could check up Miss Lindsay as
we did Mr Pollard, that would settle her question. But we can’t.”

“Where was she?” Lane asked of Millicent.

“I don’t know, I’m sure. She came home just in time to dress for the
dinner-party. But I don’t know what time it was.”

“That’s the trouble,” Prescott said, despairingly. “Nobody ever knows
what time anything happened. The only thing we are sure of is that
Gleason was still alive and telephoning at quarter to seven, and even
at that, that nurse may have been mistaken.”

“Not she,” said Lane. “She’s most accurate.”

“Then, we’re fairly sure of Miss Hayes’ evidence, for the simple
reason that we’ve no cause for doubt in her case. She says she left
the Gleason place, by the back entrance, at six o’clock. And, she says
Miss Lindsay was with Gleason at that time. Now, the puzzle fits into
place. Miss Lindsay remained for a time, trying to persuade Gleason to
give her this large sum of money, and when he refused—that is, unless
she would marry him, she became desperate, and the tragedy resulted.”

“Straight story,” said Lane, “but little to back it save your
imagination. What’s to prevent Miss Lindsay going away and somebody
else coming and committing the deed? Plenty of time between six and
quarter of seven.”

“Not likely. The people of the house were coming in then, and an
arriving man would have been noticed. Oh, I don’t say it would have
been impossible—but we’ve no shadow of evidence for it. And, if so,
where did Miss Lindsay go from there at six o’clock, that she didn’t
get home until seven or thereabouts?”

“You don’t know that it was as late as seven——”

“No! I tell you I can’t fix the time of anything. Nobody seems to have
had a timepiece going that night—which is suspicious in itself!”

“What about Philip Barry?” Lane asked this quietly. “I thought you
were sure of his guilt.”

“It all fits in,” said Prescott, slowly. “Mr Barry and Miss Lindsay
are in love with each other——”

“Now how do you know that?” and Lane looked at the detective sharply.

“I gathered it from lots of sources. Barry’s letter to Gleason for
one.”

“But that only proves that Mr Barry admired Miss Lindsay. Not that his
regard was returned.”

“Oh, well, that doesn’t matter. Say they were friends, then. Say they
were in cahoots. Say the money was wanted by Mr Barry, and together
they planned to get it from Gleason—in one way or another.”

Lane laughed shortly, and again remarked on the detective’s fertile
imagination, but in truth he was decidedly uncomfortable. He had been
afraid some one would evolve a theory that included Phyllis and Barry
both, and this was the thought that had haunted Lane’s mind. It was
incredible, but it was at least possible, that Barry’s threatening
letter and Phyllis’ desire for a large sum of money and the liking of
the girl for the artist and her detestation of Robert Gleason, all
tended toward a theory that included the two, and that had much to be
said for it.

And then a strange thing happened. One of the maids employed in the
Lindsay household came into the room.

“What is it, Hester?” asked Millicent, in surprise.

“Oh, please, madam—please, Mrs Lindsay, I think I know something I
ought to tell.”

“You do!” Prescott pounced on her. “Well, tell it, then.”

“Why—you see—I heard you talking about where Miss Phyllis was—on
the night of—of, you know—at six o’clock. And I can tell you where
she was.”

Belknap looked at the girl without much interest. She was as emotional
as the people she worked for. Her fingers twisted nervously, and she
picked at her apron, and swayed from side to side as she talked.

Probably, Belknap thought, she’s devoted to Miss Lindsay, and is
making up a yarn to save her.

But Hester went on, speaking softly, but steadily enough.

“Yes, sir. And this is what I know. At six o’clock, Miss Phyllis was
in a taxicab with a man driving up Fifth Avenue. She was near
Forty-second Street.”

Prescott laughed outright.

“You’ve a kind heart, and doubtless you love Miss Lindsay, but your
story is a little crude. Wants verisimilitude,—if you know what that
means. You may go, Hester.”

“No; wait a minute,” directed Belknap. “Were you out that afternoon,
Hester?”

“No, sir.”

“Then how do you know this?”

“I heard Mr Pollard say so.”

“Wait! This grows interesting. To whom did he say it?”

“To Miss Phyllis herself, sir.”

“Oh, he did! And when?”

“I’m thinking it was yesterday or day before. Anyhow, he was here a
talking to Miss Phyllis, and I heard him tell her he saw her then and
there and he asked her who was the man with her.”

“And who was it?”

“Miss Phyllis wouldn’t tell him, sir.”

“And so, Hester, you listen at doors, do you?”

“No, sir, that I don’t. I came into the library to mend the fire and
to turn on the lights as is my duty at twilight. And Miss Phyllis was
talking with Mr Pollard, and they said what I’ve told you.”

“And just why are you repeating it to us?”

“Because—to-day I _was_ listening at the door. I love Miss
Phyllis and when I saw her rush out of the room here, and run up to
her own room and throw herself on the bed and cry as if her heart
would break, I didn’t know what to do! And she wouldn’t let me do
anything for her, but said she wanted to be alone. So I left her and I
came down, and when I heard you gentleman talking against my young
lady, I thought maybe if I told that, it might help.”

Hester’s honest blue eyes, tear-filled and sad, left no doubt of her
sincerity and her loyalty to her beloved young mistress.

“I think you have helped, Hester,” said Belknap, not unkindly. “Now
will you go and tell Miss Lindsay that we wish to see her. That she
must come at once.”

Hester went, and it was several moments before she returned.

The group waited in silence.

Millicent wept softly, and though Lane spoke to her once or twice she
paid no attention. The volatile little woman was deeply sorry now that
she had accused Phyllis in the first place. As she said, and she did
not really mean it—or at least, she was so stunned and bewildered
that she scarcely knew what she did mean. But when she became calmer,
she knew she didn’t suspect Phyllis—and yet, so susceptible is human
nature to suggestion that when the detectives put the matter as they
did, she began to think they might be right.

While they were waiting for Phyllis’ reappearance, Barry came.

He was surprised at the presence of the Assistant District Attorney
and the detective, but as he noted their reception of himself he was
even more surprised. For they did not regard him as hostilely as
usual, and he immediately concluded they were on another track.

But conversation was a bit constrained, and finally Barry blurted out:

“What’s the idea? Why are you all sitting here as if looking for
something or somebody?”

“We are,” and Belknap looked grave. “We are waiting for Miss Lindsay
to reappear.”

“What about her?” Barry asked, suddenly alert.

“We want her to answer a few questions.” Belknap kept a wary eye on the
artist, for he was becoming more and more convinced that the secret of
the murder was in the keeping of the two. His theory strengthened in
his mind every moment and he wished Phyllis would come. Yet, something
might be gained from Barry in the meantime.

“Were you in a taxicab with Miss Lindsay on the day of Mr Gleason’s
death?” Belknap sprang suddenly.

“What do you mean?” cried Barry, angrily. “Of course I wasn’t.”

“Who was, then?”

“I don’t know, I’m sure. I don’t know that anybody was.”

“Well, some man was. At about six o’clock. At Fifth Avenue and
Forty-second Street. Where were you at that hour?”

“Why, I was almost right there myself. I walked down from the Club
with Pollard about that time, and I left him at Forty-fourth and he
went on down.”

“Very good,” Belknap nodded.

Barry’s air had been honest, his thinking back evidently real and his
statement quite in accordance with the known facts. Pollard had said
Barry walked down with him, and had left him at Forty-fourth. Now,
from that time, Pollard’s every movement had been checked up, but not
so Barry’s. Nobody seemed to have seen him from that moment until he
arrived at the Lindsay dinner party.

To ask him as to this was sure to anger him, yet Belknap tried it.

“No!” Barry stormed, in answer to his query, “I haven’t an alibi. I
mean I’ve nobody who can swear to one. As a matter of fact, I went
directly home after leaving Pollard. I went into my hotel, a small one
on West Forty-fourth Street, and I went to my rooms.”

“Meeting nobody?”

“Of course, I passed the doorman and the desk people. I don’t remember
whether I spoke to them or not. I usually nod if they’re looking my
way. But I can’t remember what happens every single night! I’m not
trying to establish an alibi, because I didn’t kill Mr Gleason. But
I’m ready to help you find out who did. I’ve not done much so far,
because I thought the matter was in capable hands. But those capable
hands have accomplished just nothing—nothing at all! Now, I’m going
to put my finger in this pie—and I’m going to discover something!”

“Wait, Mr Barry,” Belknap said, “what about that letter signed by you,
yet which you say you didn’t write. Suppose you explain that first.”

“Just what I intend to do! I haven’t quite proved it, but I have found
out a possible solution of that matter. If I can prove I didn’t write
it, and can show who did and how and why, it’ll help some—won’t it?”

“You bet it will!” cried Prescott. “That’s the kind of talk. But have
you some real information, or merely a supposition that doesn’t mean
anything definite?”

“We’ll see,” and Barry shook his head. “I’m not telling it all now.
But I came to see Miss Lindsay. Where is she?”

“She’ll be here in a minute,” Millicent said, eyeing Barry closely.

But in a minute, instead of Phyllis, Hester returned.

Excitedly, she exclaimed, “Miss Phyllis is gone. Nobody saw her go and
nobody knows where she is!”

“Gone!” said Millicent contemptuously; “how absurd! If you mean she
has run away! Phyllis wouldn’t do that.”

“Well, madam, she’s not in the apartment. Her moleskin coat is gone
from her wardrobe, and her little taupe hat. She has certainly gone
out, ma’am.”

And gone Phyllis surely had. It was foolish to look for her in the
rooms, for her hat and coat were missing, of course she had gone out
into the street; whether for some ordinary errand, or to disappear who
could tell?

“I’ll find her,” said Prescott, and clapping on his hat he hurried
away.




CHAPTER XV

Phyllis and Ivy


And where _was_ Phyllis?

Why, sitting in the small, but pretty, little bedroom of Ivy Hayes, in
that young woman’s boarding-house home.

“And so you’re Phyllis Lindsay,” said the other girl, looking
admiringly at Phyllis’ smart, inconspicuous costume. “I’m jolly glad
to see you. What can I do for you?”

The frank, pleasant manner of the hostess pleased the guest and
Phyllis said, impulsively, “Oh, I hope you can help me. I’m in a
quandary. Will you tell me frankly just why you said I was at Mr
Gleason’s the day he died?”

“Now, how did you know I said that? I declare those detectives tell
everything!”

“I thought it was Mr Barry whom you told.”

“Well, it’s all the same. Why, I said you were there, because you were
there.”

“No, I wasn’t.”

“All right, then, you weren’t. I like you, Miss Lindsay, and I’ll
stand by you. Now, you tell me what you want me to say, and I’ll say
it.”

“Oh, dear, I don’t want you to say anything that isn’t true. Why did
you think I was there, if you didn’t see me?”

“I heard you.”

“Heard me talking?”

“Yes.”

“What did I say?”

“You were asking Mr Gleason for money—a big sum.”

“And you heard me ask him?”

“I didn’t exactly hear you, you spoke very low, and I was behind a
closed door. But I heard all Mr Gleason said—so I could tell.”

“What did he say?”

“He said, ‘twenty thousand dollars! I should say not! Not
unless—well, you know my conditions.’ That’s exactly what he said.
And then you murmured something, and he said, ‘You’re a
Lindsay—you’re both Lindsays,’ but I don’t know whether he meant you
and his sister, or you and your brother.”

“What has my brother to do with it?”

“I don’t know—but when he spoke of the two of you together, like
that, I thought he meant you and Louis. But afterward, I thought he
might have meant you and his sister, Mrs Lindsay.”

“You know my brother? You call him Louis!”

“Yes, I know him—not awfully well, but enough to call him anything I
like. You don’t have to know anybody so very long to call him pet
names.”

“Pet names!”

“Oh, come now, Miss Lindsay, don’t be so shocked. You’re probably more
conventional than I am, but you must know a few things. Well, anyhow,
I didn’t hear any more, because Mr Gleason shut the door, and I just
scooted down the back way and home. I never knew whether you got the
money you wanted or not. Did you?”

Phyllis gasped. She was annoyed at the girl’s rudeness, but, after
all, Ivy Hayes had a charm of her own, and it was impossible to feel
deep resentment toward the flippant little thing.

“I didn’t get it from Mr Gleason, because I didn’t ask him for it. I
didn’t ask him for it, because I wasn’t there. I’ve never been there.”

“All right, Miss Lindsay—what you say goes. You’ve never been there.
Is that what you came to tell me?”

Ivy cocked her foolish little curly head on one side, and gave Phyllis
such a humorous wink that she couldn’t help smiling.

“I don’t wonder Louis likes you,” she said, impulsively. “You’re an
adorable little piece.”

“That’s right,” said Ivy, gravely. “Pile it on thick. I just lap it
up. Do you think I’m pretty?”

“Yes,” Phyllis returned, simply. “Now, tell me again, why did you
think the—the person Mr Gleason said those things to was myself, when
you never had seen me—and you say you couldn’t hear me.”

“Well, when the bell rang, Mr Gleason said it was you. That he
expected you.”

Phyllis turned pale. “Go on,” she said.

“That’s all. He said, ‘That’s Miss Lindsay coming up. You go.’ So I
went. I hung around a few moments, trying to get a glimpse of you, but
I couldn’t. I heard you speak, but you spoke so low, and the door was
almost shut, so I couldn’t hear a word you said.”

“Well,” Phyllis drew a long breath. “If I was there—I didn’t kill Mr
Gleason.”

“Of course you didn’t!” Ivy exclaimed. Then, with a look deep into
Phyllis’ eyes, she added, “And you weren’t there. I know it now!”

“How do you know it?”

“Oh, it’s come to me. You were not there that day at all, Miss
Lindsay. As you say, you’ve never been there.”

Ivy looked very grave. She gazed at Phyllis with a strange look of
divination, and added, “I know you haven’t.”

“Oh, yes, I have,” Phyllis cried quickly. “I _was_ there that
day—I was, really. I just said I wasn’t—because——”

“Oh, come now,” Ivy smiled a little but she did not laugh. “What am I
to think? You were there and you weren’t there! You’ve never been
there and you were there that day! My goodness gracious!”

“I was there,” Phyllis said, looking at her coldly. “I said at first I
wasn’t, for—for reasons of my own——”

“Yes, I know,” and Ivy nodded a sagacious head. “What are we going to
do about it?”

Phyllis stared. “About what?”

“About the—the reason you said—you know——”

“Don’t! Don’t look like that! You’re uncanny. What do you know?”

“I don’t know anything. Do you?”

“About what?”

“About who killed Mr Gleason.”

This time Ivy looked directly at Phyllis, and that with a meaning
glance.

Phyllis covered her face with her hands, and at once Ivy ran to her
side and threw her arms around her.

“Now, don’t cry,” she begged. “It’s no time for that. Let’s see what
we can do.”

“Do about what? What are you talking about?”

“Shall I speak out? Shall I put it into words?”

“Yes,” said Phyllis, but she shrank as from a sudden blow.

“Then, here’s how I dope it out. It wasn’t you who were there—but it
was Louis.”

“Oh, no, no! It was I. It wasn’t Buddy.”

“Yes it was. You’re trying to shield him. I see it. Now, don’t take
that tack with me. Own up—tell me all you know—and I’ll help you.”
Phyllis thought a moment.

“Might as well,” Ivy urged. “I know too much to be ignored, and I
truly think it would be better for you in every way, to take me into
your confidence. Let me help you.”

“How can you?”

“I don’t know, quite. But I do know that if you stick to your story of
having been there yourself, when you were not, you’ll get a whole lot
of unpleasant notoriety, if nothing worse.”

“Meaning?”

“Suspicion. Accusation. Maybe arrest.”

Phyllis jumped. “Arrest!” she whispered, and her eyes stared in
horror.

“Well, maybe not that,” Ivy soothed her, “but, you tell me all about
it. Look here, Miss Lindsay, I’m a better detective than half the men
on the force. And, say, I know a little girl—well, I don’t suppose
you’d want her—but start straight now—tell me everything you know.
Let me be your father confessor.”

“But I’ve nothing to confess.”

“You haven’t! How about that story—fib you just told about going to
Mr Gleason’s house—when you didn’t go.”

“You don’t know that I didn’t.”

“Yes, I do, and I’ll tell you how I know. It was Louis who went
there—not you!”

“You didn’t see him.”

“No, and I didn’t hear him—or I should have known at once. But it was
Louis, of course, and when Mr Gleason said ‘You’re both Lindsays,’ and
referred to the stepmother, of course it fitted Louis as well as you.
Louis wanted money—you know that?”

“Yes, I know that.”

“Has he got it—yet?”

“He will have it to-morrow. A—a friend is going to let me have it for
him.”

“Who?”

“Mr Pollard.”

“You seem to be able to get money easily!”

“Mr Pollard is my fiance.”

Phyllis remembered suddenly that Pollard had told her she might want
to say that, and just now, in the presence of this girl of a lower
class and of a lesser degree of refinement, Phyllis felt a sudden
impulse to justify her position. To her mind, to take money from one’s
fiance made correct what would otherwise be a questionable thing to
do.

“Oho! I see! Why, I thought you and Mr Barry were pals.”

“We are. Good pals. But I am engaged to Mr Pollard.”

“And you’re to get the money for Louis—in time?”

“Yes—in time. You know?”

“I know he’ll be jailed if he doesn’t fork over about twenty thousand
to that old shark!”

“Never mind details. Now, truly, Ivy, do you think Buddy was at Mr
Gleason’s that day?”

“I don’t think it, I know it. And, Phyllis—he—he killed him.”

In the gravity of the moment neither noticed the intimate use of the
name. Phyllis looked at the other, her eyes full of a dumb agony.

“Don’t!” she begged, “don’t say it!”

“Better face it, dear. I am positive. You see it all hangs together.
That old maid person on the floor above, saw a young man come in, and
I know it was Louis. Where was he at that time? I mean, where does he
say he was?”

“I don’t know. I haven’t asked him. Oh, Ivy, he didn’t?—he
couldn’t——”

“Maybe he could. Louis is not much on the strong-arm work, but he has
desperate determination, and if he went there to get that money—and
if Mr Gleason wouldn’t give it to him—let me see—I suppose Gleason
must have said that his condition was your acceptance of his suit!”

“I suppose so,” Phyllis agreed. “He knew how I love Louis, and he
often tried to get him to persuade me to do various things. Louis is
my idol. I’ve always adored him. I really brought him up, for mother
died when he was so little. We’re far closer to one another than most
brothers and sisters. Oh, Ivy, what can I do?”

“Hush, let me think. I wish I wasn’t so sure Louis did the thing. But,
you see, he was right there—johnny-on-the-spot! And he was mad—and
he was desperate—and Mr Gleason’s pistol was handy-by—and he was at
the end of his rope—alone with him there—oh, of course, it was
inevitable. How has he acted since?”

“Queerly,” Phyllis admitted. “He’s nervous and jumpy, and afraid of
everybody.”

“Of course he is. Well, Phyllis, he’ll have to run away.”

“Oh, no!”

“Yes, he will. It’s all very well to be shocked at the idea, and to
prefer to have him face the music—but the risk is too great! Even if
he should be innocent—and he can’t be—they’d put him through with
bells on!”

“What do you mean?”

“I mean as soon as the police get Louis in their mind as a suspect,
they’ll pounce on him, and they’ll fasten it on him, no matter what he
says.”

“Railroad him——”

“That’s not quite the word. You don’t know much about these things, do
you? Railroad is a term they use about innocent suspects, and
Louis——”

“Oh, Ivy, how can you? Stop! Don’t you love him, too?”

“Oh, in a way. But it’s enough of a way to want him to get off! I tell
you he must vanish—disappear. And that big money must be paid, or
those people will be after him. You know all about that deal?”

“Yes; and I may as well tell you, I was out that afternoon, in a
taxicab with—with Bill Halsey.”

“Halsey! You! Oh, you poor dear.”

“Oh, he was respectful—very decent, in fact. He was to go with me to
Mr Gleason—I was expected, you see—and I was to try to persuade Mr
Gleason to pay that debt and free Louis from the sharks. I knew Mr
Gleason’s price would be my promise to marry him—and—I expected to
pay.”

“Well, why didn’t you go to Gleason’s?”

“Because—as we neared there, we saw Louis going in!”

“What time was that?”

“Oh, I don’t know. It’s all a horrid nightmare. I turned around and
went right home. No, not right home; we drove around a bit, trying to
decide what to do. Mr Halsey was nice; he said for me to follow up my
brother or to wait developments, just as I chose. Of course, I said
I’d wait and learn the result of Louis’ visit—I knew what he went
for.”

“And since—since we know the result of Louis’ visit, has Mr Halsey
been after you?”

“Yes; but I told him that now the inheritance was mine, I’d pay him
all Louis owes him just as soon as I could arrange it. He seemed
satisfied, only he wants the money at once. So Mr Pollard is getting
it for me.”

“Well, anyway, Bill Halsey won’t bother Louis about that. Now, I tell
you, Phyllis, it’s necessary that we get the boy away—smuggle him out
of the country——”

“Out of the country!”

“Yes—Canada, Europe—anywhere. Or maybe it would be easier to hide
him. Do you know of any country place—some friend’s house—no, they’d
find him. Oh, what can we do?”

“It’s too big a question for us to handle. Two girls can’t take care
of a case like this. I’ll ask Mr Pollard what to do.”

“Yes, that’s good. Mr Barry wouldn’t be very capable—but Mr Pollard
is.”

“You know him?”

“Not personally. But I know he’s a powerful and a wise man. He’ll know
just what to do. And as you’re engaged to him—you’ll want to tell him
about Louis—or, won’t you?”

“Why, yes—I suppose so. But how you take things for granted! I must
see Louis first of all. Oh, Buddy, Buddy dear!”

In the meantime, Phyllis’ mysterious disappearance was causing dismay
and consternation in many hearts and minds.

Prescott, who had started out to find her, was looking everywhere,
except in the home of Ivy Hayes.

Belknap, still at the Lindsay house, talked it over with Mrs Lindsay
and Philip Barry and concluded that at last they were on the right
track. He had no fears about finding the girl, for she could not
disappear permanently. But it was a shock, and he was a little
bewildered.

“Of course,” he said, “disappearance is practically confession. Miss
Lindsay must be found—can, probably, easily be found. But I am
sorry.”

“Sorry!” cried Millicent, “how you talk! You don’t mean you think
Phyllis killed my brother, do you?”

“You said that yourself, at first, Mrs Lindsay,” Belknap reminded her.

“Only in the excitement of my first shock. Really, I was not quite
responsible for what I said that night. Now, I know Phyllis couldn’t
have done it——”

“Why not?”

“A girl like that! Incredible.”

“It has been done. It may be she was under great provocation.”

“But, hold on, Belknap,” Barry cried; “don’t go too fast. What have
you by way of evidence? Only that Miss Lindsay was seen in a taxicab
with some man. What does that prove?”

“That there are some questions for Miss Lindsay to answer. I am not
accusing her unheard. I want to hear her, to see her, to question her.
And she has run away—which is, to say the least, a strange thing for
her to do.”

“Oh, she hasn’t run away. There are dozens of plausible reasons for
her sudden departure. And see here, Belknap, don’t let your suspicions
turn toward that girl. It’s too ridiculous.”

“It will bear investigation.”

“Not even that. Since you’ve taken this attitude, I’ve decided to come
through myself. I killed Robert Gleason.”

Belknap looked at him. “Now, Mr Barry, that’s too transparent. You’re
saying that to shield Miss Lindsay.”

“Seems to me you’d better not jump at conclusions too continuously.
And are you logical? You suspect Miss Lindsay with no evidence—only
because she chanced to go out when you wanted to see her. Yet when I
come and give myself up, you refuse to believe my confession. Can you
not say, at least, that it needs investigation? Isn’t it your habit to
look into the matter of a serious confession?”

Belknap stared at him.

But Millicent Lindsay cried out: “Oh, Phil, I’m so sorry! Do you know,
I felt it was you all along. And I like you so much! But when I
learned about the letter you wrote to Robert—you did write it, didn’t
you?”

“Yes,” said Barry.

“Well, as soon as I heard about that, I knew you did it. You never
liked Robert, but that was mostly because you thought he would get
Phyllis away from you. But to kill him! I can hardly believe it—and
yet, I’ve felt sure of it for some time!”

The doorbell rang, and in a flurry of tears and agitation Millicent
ran away to her own room.

The newcomer was Pollard, and as he entered he observed the serious
attitude of the two men.

“What is it?” he asked, simply.

“I’ve just confessed to the Gleason murder,” said Barry.

“What did you confess for?”

“Because I did it. What does any one confess for?”

“Usually because he didn’t do it. The real murderer rarely confesses.”

“Just what I think,” Belknap said; “Mr Barry has an idea that Miss
Lindsay will be accused, and he has confessed to prevent it.”

“That it, Phil?” and Manning Pollard looked Barry squarely in the
eyes.

“Take it any way you like, Pol,” Barry said. “I make my confession, I
give myself up—now let the law—if such a thing exists—take its
course. And there’s that letter. You know I wrote it, Pollard. You
know I must have written it. There’s no other possible theory. You
know I left you about six—or a little before. You know I’ve no
alibi—and there was time enough for me to go down to the Gleason
place and get back for the dinner party.”

“You rattle it off like a lesson, Phil. How did you go down there?”

Barry stared, but quickly said, “Taxi.”

“Did no one see you go in?”

“Not that I know of. Shut up, Pollard.”

Pollard shut up, and Belknap asked a long string of questions. These
Barry answered, but even then, Belknap did not arrest him. The
attorney went away, leaving the matter in abeyance, for, as a matter
of fact, he had no idea Barry was telling the truth.

“Shielding somebody?” Pollard asked as soon as Belknap had gone.

Barry look at him. “I confessed,” he said.

“Yes; I know. To shield Phyllis—or Louis?”

“Don’t, Pol.”

“Own up, old chap. Or perhaps you suspect them both.”

“I do! How did you know? They were there together. There was trouble.
Louis sent that telephone message—after the shooting—and he muddled
it. It’s all been a muddle ever since!”

“It surely has,” agreed Pollard. “But I’m not sure you’ve chosen the
best way to clear it up.”

“Well, I had to. I can’t see Phyllis dragged through a trial—and she
would say or do anything to shield Louis. So I thought I’d throw
myself into the breach.”

“You’ve certainly done so—whether for good or ill.”




CHAPTER XVI

Buddy


“Now that the money is paid, Phyllis, dear, and the whole matter is
hushed up, Louis will never be suspected of having had anything to do
with that Bill Halsey gang. It was a narrow escape—if the story had
come out, it would have stained the boy’s reputation badly. But,
thanks to your quick action and watchful care, your brother is
released from their clutches and you need worry about that no more.”

“Thanks, too, to your kindness in letting me have the money. I will
repay you just as soon as Mr Lane settles financial matters enough to
give it to me out of my inheritance.”

“No hurry about it. Instead of that, let’s talk about ourselves. When
are you going to let me give you a ring?”

“Oh, not yet,” and Phyllis looked distressed. “Wait till this awful
matter of the Gleason death is explained.”

“Will it ever be?” Pollard spoke gravely, and added, “Do you want it
to be?”

“Oh,” she cried, “don’t look like that! Do _you_ suspect Louis,
too? Buddy never did it! Never!”

“No, of course he didn’t. Do you sometimes think Phil——”

“Philip Barry! No! He says he did, to shield my brother——”

“And you.”

“Me!”

“Yes. Let’s speak frankly, Phyllis. I can’t bear to fence or quibble
with you. Now, you know, you and Louis were there——”

“Oh, no, we weren’t—well—maybe we were—oh, I don’t know what I’m
saying.”

“Poor little girl. Don’t try to make up stories to me. Tell me just
how it was—or, don’t tell me anything—as you wish, but don’t tell me
what isn’t so. I can’t help you if you do that.”

Phyllis looked at him searchingly. She trusted him—and yet, she
hesitated to put into words her own suspicions of Louis.

“I’m sure Phil Barry is shielding some one else,” she began.

“But, dear, that letter—how could that have been written, except by
Barry?”

“Now, don’t you prevaricate to me!” she cried; “you know whatever is
the explanation of the letter, Phil Barry isn’t guilty!”

“I don’t know any such thing! If Barry wrote the letter, he must have
meant something by it, and until he is proved innocent, there’s good
reason for suspecting him.”

“Don’t you suspect Louis?” Phyllis asked directly, facing Pollard with
a straightforward gaze.

“Don’t ask me, dear. If I did—if I do—I wouldn’t say so,
because—because I love you. Confide in me—please do, darling. If you
suspect your brother, tell me so, and I’ll do all I can to divert
suspicion from him.”

“Even if you think him guilty?”

“Certainly. If Louis did it—he was blinded by rage, or, moved by a
sudden homicidal impulse born of desperation——”

“But that doesn’t excuse him.”

“Not to the law—but to me, he is excused because he is your
brother——”

“Yes, my brother—my little Buddy—oh, Manning, I can’t face it!”

“You weren’t there, too—at the time?”

“At the time of the murder? Oh, no!” Phyllis’ eyes were wide with
horror.

“Do you know that Louis was there?”

Pollard pressed the question, glad that Phyllis had abandoned
pretense, and was telling truths.

“Yes, I do.” The pained eyes looked beseechingly into his. “I have the
evidence of an eye-witness—or, nearly.”

“What do you mean by nearly?”

“Why, somebody else was there, who didn’t see Louis, but who heard
him—or, rather, heard Mr Gleason talking to him.”

“Is that all? Phyllis, that isn’t enough to convict Louis!”

“Isn’t it? But, if they accuse him—he’ll break down and confess. I
know Buddy; as soon as a breath of suspicion touches him he’ll go all
to pieces——”

“Whether he’s guilty or not?”

Phyllis stared. “Why, no, of course not if he isn’t guilty. Oh,
Manning, do you think he isn’t? Tell me you do!”

“I wish I could, darling. But, I do say, there’s no real evidence and
we may be able to prevent any from coming to light. Even if Louis was
there, didn’t he leave before the time of the attack?”

“I don’t know. I can’t find out. I daren’t mention it to him. Oh,
Buddy, dear—I’m sure you never did it!”

“I’m sure, too,” said Pollard, decidedly, and, whatever was in his
mind there was conviction in his tone. “Now, see here, Phyllis, let’s
do nothing in the matter. As near as I can make out, Barry’s
confession is not believed at all by the police. They are sure he’s
shielding some one, but they don’t know who it is. Of course, Barry
won’t tell, so Louis is safe.”

“But suppose they do come to believe Phil, and he is arrested!”

“Not a chance.”

“But if they should?”

“Would you care so much?” Pollard spoke softly, and tenderly. “If it
should mean Louis’ safety——”

“At the expense of an innocent man? Oh, impossible!”

“But you love Buddy——”

“I do, yes—but if he is guilty—nobody else can be allowed to suffer
in his place. Least of all, Phil Barry.”

Phyllis said the name, with a gentler light in her eyes, a softer
inflection of her voice, and Pollard felt a sudden chill at his heart.

“What do you mean by that?” he asked, quietly, “anything especial?”

“No—oh, no,” but Phyllis blushed.

“Remember, dear, you’re engaged to me,” Pollard said, smiling at her.
“I resent such implications of any other interest of yours.”

“You resent my interest in Phil Barry! Why, I thought he was your best
friend.”

“He is. But he can’t be yours. Not your best friend—only
second-best.”

“Well, he’s too dear a friend for me to let any undeserved suspicion
fall on him,” and Phyllis’ eyes shone with righteous indignation.

“First, we must be sure it is undeserved.”

“Very well, I will make sure!”

With a determined gesture, Phyllis pushed a bell button and a maid
responded.

“Ask Mr Lindsay to come here,” Phyllis directed, and then turning to
Pollard with a pretty gesture of confidence, she said:

“Let’s work together, Manning. You see what you think of the way Louis
meets my questions. I’ve decided to meet the issue straight.”

“What is it, Sis?” asked Louis, coming into the room. “What do you
want of me? Hello, Pollard, how are you?”

“Buddy, dear,” Phyllis began, “where were you the day Mr Gleason
died?”

“Out with it Phyl. Do you think I killed him?”

Louis looked at his sister. The boy was haggard, pale and worried
looking, but he met her eye and awaited her answer to his question.

“No, Louis, I can’t think so—but there are circumstances that make it
appear possible, and I want your word.”

“Well, then, Phyllis, I didn’t do it.”

Calmly the brother gazed at the sister. Anxiously, Phyllis scanned the
well-known face, the affectionate eyes, the sensitive, quivering
mouth, but though agitated, Louis had himself well in hand, and his
frank speech carried conviction.

Phyllis drew a long breath.

“I believe you, Buddy,” she said.

Pollard was quiet for a moment, and then observed, “All right,
Lindsay. And, in that case, you’re probably willing to tell all about
your presence there that afternoon. Why haven’t you done so?”

Pollard’s tone was not accusing so much as one of friendly inquiry,
and Louis, after a moment’s hesitation, replied:

“Why, Pol, I suppose I was a coward. I was afraid, if I admitted I was
in Gleason’s place that afternoon, I might be suspected of the
crime—and I’m innocent—before God, I am.”

The solemn voice rang true, and Phyllis clasped his hand as she said,
“I know it, Buddy, I know you never did it!”

“But, if it comes out I was there, I can’t help being suspected,”
Louis went on, a look of terror coming to his face. “I—oh, I hate to
confess it, but I _am_ afraid. Not afraid of justice—but afraid
I’ll be accused of something I didn’t do!”

“You would, too, Louis,” Pollard said. “Better keep still about the
whole matter, I think. You see, Louis, except for the murderer, you
are probably the last one who saw Gleason alive. Now, that, in itself
is troublesome evidence, especially if the murderer doesn’t turn up.
That is why, I think, my theory of the stranger from the West is
undoubtedly the true one. You see, none of the people hereabouts—I
mean you, Barry, Davenport, myself, or any of us Club men could have
been down there so late, and then turned up here for the dinner party.
Of course, that would have been possible, but highly improbable. While
an outsider, a man known to Gleason but not to any of use, could have
come and gone at will.”

“He had to reach the Gleason apartment soon after Buddy left,” Phyllis
mused, thinking it out. “Well, Manning, I’m convinced of Buddy’s
innocence. My boy can’t lie to me! I know him too well. He is worried
and anxious about the suspicions that may attach to him, but he’s
absolutely innocent of crime, aren’t you, dear?”

And Louis looked into his sister’s face, and quietly replied, “Yes,
Phyllis,” and she believed him.

“Now,” she said, “I’m going to free Phil Barry.”

“You!” exclaimed Pollard. “Are you going to turn detective?”

“I’m going to help the detectives work,” she declared. “Or, rather,
I’m going to get a detective that can work. I don’t think much of what
has been accomplished so far. I’m going to get another detective——”

“A private detective?” asked Pollard. “Better be careful, dear. Don’t
get mixed up in this thing too deeply.”

“No, I won’t. I’m not going to do anything myself. But, I want to tell
you something. Ivy Hayes knows of a girl——”

“Ivy Hayes!” exclaimed Louis, while Pollard raising his eyebrows,
murmured, “A girl!”

“I seem to have exploded two bombshells!” said Phyllis, smiling.

She was in better spirits now, since the assurance of Louis that he
was not guilty.

“But it is the truth. Ivy Hayes knows of a girl detective——”

“Oh, Phyllis, don’t!” begged Pollard. “A private detective is bad
enough—but a girl one! Please don’t.”

“But she’s a wonder—Ivy says so.”

“Sister, for goodness’ sake, don’t tell me you know Ivy Hayes!”

“Certainly I do, Louis. If you may know her why can’t I? And I like
her, too. And she’ll get this person for me, and I know Millicent will
agree——”

“Quite a feminine bunch,” Pollard laughed. “Do you think you and Mrs
Lindsay and Miss Hayes and the girl sleuth can succeed where several
men have failed?”

“That’s just what I do think,” cried Phyllis, triumphantly. “This is
the era of feminine achievement, and why not in detection as well as
in other lines?”

“Have it your own way,” said Pollard, looking at her fondly. “I must
go now, but if I can help you—though, being a mere man, I suppose I
can’t——”

“Oh, yes, you can,” Phyllis smiled at him. “I’ll be only too glad to
call upon you for assistance.” Pollard left, and Phyllis at once
called Ivy on the telephone to get more information about the girl
detective.

“Oh, it isn’t a girl!” Ivy replied; “that is, it is a girl, but it’s a
man, too. They’re associated, you see. Of course, the man is the head
of the firm—but the girl, who is his assistant, does quite as much of
the work as he does. And, she’s my friend, that’s why I spoke of her
as the detective. But he’s the one to call on. He’s Pennington
Wise—they call him Penny Wise—how could they help it! Well, he’s
your man, and she’s your girl. I used to know her, when we were both
kids, and I don’t see her often nowadays, but we’re good friends, and
she’s a wonder.”

“You’re a wonder, too, Ivy,” Phyllis said; “thank you lots and heaps.
Give me the address, and I’ll excuse you.”

Ivy gave the number, and Phyllis went at once and told the story to
Millicent.

“Oh, do get him!” cried Mrs Lindsay. “I’ve heard of Penny Wise—he’s a
wizard! I don’t know anything about his girl assistant—but that
doesn’t matter. Penny Wise is great! I’ve often heard of him. He’s
frightfully expensive, but they say he never loses a case. But,
Phyllis, I never suspected Louis! How could you think I did!
But—don’t faint now—I do suspect Phil Barry!”

“It doesn’t matter much whom you suspect to-day, Millicent, it will be
somebody else to-morrow! Aren’t you about due to suspect me again?”

“You! oh, Phyllis, don’t remind me of the foolish things I said, when
I was hysterical and almost crazy! You know how you’d feel if Louis
had been killed! You’d suspect anybody!”

“All right, Millicent, I’ll forget it. But I don’t believe for one
minute that Philip Barry is the guilty man.”

“You don’t! Why, Phyllis, I thought you did!”

“Oh, I don’t know what I think,” and Phyllis broke down and sobbed.

“There, there, dear child,” Millicent soothed her. “Don’t cry. You’re
all worried to pieces. Now, let’s get the Wise man, and then you shift
all care and anxiety on to him.”

“But, Millicent, suppose he should prove it to be Phil!”

“If it is Phil, he ought to be shown up. We can’t stop now, for
sentiment or preference. We must go ahead and prove positively who is
the criminal.”

When Millicent took the tone of an avenging justice, she was almost
humorous, so ill did the role fit her. But she was in earnest, and she
immediately set to work to engage the services of Pennington Wise.

Her efforts were vain, however, as the detective politely informed her
that his press of business would not permit him to take on another
case at present.

Greatly disappointed, she told Phyllis, who at once told Ivy Hayes,
over the telephone, of her defeat.

“Huh,” said the young woman, “won’t come, won’t he? Well, I guess he
will. Expect him this evening, to talk over the preliminaries.”

For the sanguine Ivy felt sure her childhood friend could somehow
persuade the great detective to meet the engagement she had just
committed him to.

“Zizi,” Miss Hayes later remarked, to her friend, “You just simply got
to take on the Gleason case. You hear me?”

“Hear you perfectly,” Zizi’s engaging little voice replied. “But——”

“No buts. You just do it. Why, Ziz, it’s all mixed up with friends of
mine. And say, dearie, I want you to do it for old times’ sake.”

“But, Ivy, truly——”

“Truly you will? All right, Ziz. You make Penny Wise stand around—you
fix it somehow—and you send him or go yourself to the Lindsay home
this evening at eight o’clock. Love and kisses. Your own Ivy.”

Ivy hung up the receiver, satisfied that if her friend didn’t or
couldn’t meet her wishes, she would call her up and tell her so. Not
hearing from Zizi, Ivy concluded all was going well.

And it was. Zizi, the wonderful little assistant of the great
detective, coaxed and finally persuaded him to take the case, assuring
him that she, herself, would do most of the work. She put it on the
grounds of a personal favor to herself, and as this was so unusual a
condition as to be almost unique, Pennington Wise gave in.

And so, promptly at eight, he presented himself at the Lindsays’ and
was received with welcome.

For an hour Wise listened to the accounts of the case from the three
Lindsays. No one else was present, and Wise asked them to tell him all
they could, both of direct evidence or their own leanings or
suspicions.

The detective was a man of great personal magnetism. Tall and strong,
his very bearing inspired confidence and hope. His face was fine and
mobile, his wavy chestnut hair, brushed over back, was fine and thick,
and his keen blue eyes took in everything without any undue curiosity.

He was both receptive and responsive, and in an hour he had the
history of the case, clearly and definitely in his mind.

“Now, then,” he said, “we can admit of several suspects already. There
was a motive, let us say, for any one who benefited by Mr Gleason’s
will. That includes Mr and Miss as well as Mrs Lindsay.”

Millicent frowned at him. “Me!” she cried, explosively.

“I only say you benefited by the will,” said Wise, mildly. “I have as
much right to mention your name as those of the other two.”

“Louis didn’t get anything from the will,” said Phyllis.

“He did, in a way,” the detective returned. “You’re so fond of your
brother, that whatever is yours, is pretty much the same as belonging
to him. Now, I’m not going to consider you two ladies as suspects at
all. But Mr Lindsay’s cause I shall look into.”

Louis colored, angrily, and was about to make a sharp retort, when the
kindness of Wise’s expression caught his notice, and he suddenly
decided he’d like to be friends with the detective.

“Look into it all you like,” he said, with an air of relief at giving
his troubles over to this capable person. “I’m glad to have you. You
see, Mr Wise, I was there so fearfully close to the time of the crime,
that I’ve been afraid to have it known how close.”

“Don’t be afraid, my boy. If you’re guilty I’ll find it out, anyway;
and if not, you’ve more to gain than lose by being frank and honest.”

“Who are your other suspects?” Phyllis asked, anxiously.

“Everybody,” said Wise, smiling at her. “First, Doctor Davenport——”

“Oh, no!”

“First, Doctor Davenport, because, he first raised the alarm. Next, Mr
Pollard, because he declared an intention of killing Mr Gleason. Next,
Mr Monroe, because——”

“Dean Monroe!” exclaimed Louis, “why he has never been thought of!”

“That’s the answer!” said Wise. “He was in that group who discussed
murder that afternoon, he went away, his subsequent movements have not
been traced, and, as you say, he’s never been questioned or even
thought of in the matter. Therefore, I investigate his case.”

“And Philip Barry?” Phyllis could hold back the question no longer.

“Ah, yes, Mr Barry.” Pennington Wise looked at her. “You are
interested in him? Especially? Forgive me if I seem intrusive. I am
not really, but I have to know some things to know how to go about
others.”

“Miss Lindsay is engaged to Mr Pollard,” Millicent informed the
inquirer. “She’s a firm friend of Mr Barry’s, but, I think you ought
to know that Manning Pollard is her fiance.”

“Yes,” Phyllis said, as Wise asked the question by a glance. “I am
engaged to Mr Pollard, but I don’t want Mr Barry suspected.”

“Not if he did it?”

“He didn’t do it.”

“But the letter? He wrote that?”

“No; he did not.”

“He says he did. It is signed by him. It is in keeping with his nature
and his attitude toward Mr Gleason. Why do you say he didn’t write
it?”

“I don’t know, Mr Wise. I have a feeling, a conviction that somebody
forged that letter.”

“But how would that be possible?”

“I don’t know. I can’t tell you. But I’m sure.”

“I haven’t seen the letter yet, Miss Lindsay,” Pennington Wise looked
at her reflectively. “And until I do, I can’t speak positively. But
I’ve read up this case, more or less, and I can’t see how a forgery
could pass the experts as this has done. I incline to think it is
genuine. But it need not have implied murder at all.”

“No,” repeated Phyllis, “he didn’t write it. I know he didn’t.”

“If he didn’t, trust me to find it out,” Wise reassured her. And, as
they heard the bell ring, “I dare say that’s my little assistant. She
agreed to come later. I want you to like her.”

“I know I shall,” said Phyllis, enthusiastically; “I’ve heard about her
from Miss Hayes.”

And in another moment Zizi appeared in the doorway.




CHAPTER XVII

Zizi


“Mrs Lindsay?” Zizi said, by way of interrogative greeting, and, with
a second nod to Louis, she crossed the room and sat down by Phyllis.

“Miss Lindsay,” and the visitor took both Phyllis’ hands in her own.
“I am so glad to know you. May I help you?”

“Oh, I hope you can,” Phyllis said, fascinated by the strange child.

For Zizi looked like a child. Little, slim, and of a lithe, nervous
personality, her big, dark eyes gazed into Phyllis’ with an expression
of intense interest in her and her affairs.

“You’re troubled,” she went on, as Phyllis responded to her evident
friendliness. “But it will be all right; Pennington Wise will clear up
the mystery and you will be glad again.”

“You queer little thing!” Millicent exclaimed. “Turn around here and
let me look at you.”

Zizi, turned, smiling, her white teeth just showing between her
scarlet lips, her eyes dancing, cheeks glowing, and her black hair
muffed over her ears—a highly-colored picture of vivid, restless
vitality.

“Yes, Mrs Lindsay,” she responded in her low, yet clear voice, “and
please like me, for I’m going to stay here.”

“Stay here!”

“Yes, please, during the investigation. Mr Wise will come and go, but
I have to be here all the time.”

“Why, certainly—of course, if you wish——”

“Good!” Louis cried; “glad to have you stay, Miss——”

“Zizi,” she said, “just Zizi.” And the smile she flashed on Louis was
the complete undoing of that impressionable young man.

“And now to business,” Zizi went on, her manner changing subtly from
the witch-like, fascinating child to the energetic young woman. “Tell
me things.”

“We’ve already told Mr Wise about the case——” Millicent began.

“Not the kind of things you tell him—other things. About this Mr
Barry, now. Has he a high temper?”

Phyllis stared-What had Phil Barry’s temper to do with the murder of
Robert Gleason?

“You see,” Zizi explained, “if he had, the note might have meant he’d
kill his rival—if not it might have meant a lesser threat.”

“He has a high temper,” Phyllis admitted, reluctantly; “I may as well
say so, for others would tell you that. He’s a mild, equable nature as
long as things go his way. But if he’s thwarted or crossed, even in
trifles, he flies in a rage at once. I oughtn’t to say this——”

“Because it seems to incriminate him,” Zizi nodded her little head;
“but I compel the truth—don’t I?” she smiled at Phyllis. “I’ll bet
you wouldn’t have said that to any other detective. Well, now, with
the knowledge that Mr Barry is quick tempered, that he was jealous of
Mr Gleason and that he wrote the threatening letter, and that he has
given no positive account of what he was doing at the critical
moment—shall we suspect him? Answer, no.”

“Why?” Phyllis spoke breathlessly, relieved but anxious to know more.

“Well, principally for the reason that he has confessed.”

“Don’t murderers ever confess?” Louis asked, his eyes on the beautiful
young thing that was of a type hitherto unknown in his experience.

Zizi was not really beautiful, but her magnetic charm was so great,
her ways so winsome, and her mysterious eyes so full of changing
expression and half-veiled witchery that she enthralled them all.

Wise watched her. He was accustomed to have his clients surprised at
his strange little assistant, but oftener they were critical than
wholly admiring. Tonight, however, Zizi was at her best—she was more
than usually attractive, and her manner was gentler than she often
chose to make it.

“Oh, yes,” she said, in reply to Louis’ query, “but you have to know
why they confess. You see Mr Barry confessed to shield some one else.”

“Who?” Louis asked, but he flushed and looked embarrassed.

“You know who,” Zizi returned, “and maybe it wasn’t only yourself, but
Phyllis, too. You see—you must see, all of you, that the situation is
serious. Louis was there very shortly before the crime took place.
Phyllis is said to have been there—whether she was or not—no one can
be found who saw or spoke to Mr Gleason after that—so it would be
just like the detectives to fasten the crime on one or both of the
Lindsays. Anyway, that’s the way it looked to Mr Barry, and in his
quick tempered—which means impulsive way—he gave himself up.
Although he is as innocent of the crime as you two are.”

“My goodness!” Millicent exclaimed, “you start out by clearing all
those who have been suspected!”

“Not all. There still remain several of the Club men—also the
possibility of a stranger—I mean a stranger to you people who are
interested. Mrs Lindsay, where did your brother live before he went to
Seattle?”

“In a little village in New Hampshire—Coggs’ Hollow.”

“Lovely name! Did you live there, too?”

“No; I lived in Ohio with my parents. An uncle, my mother’s brother,
took Robert to live with him, in New Hampshire, when the boy was quite
small. That’s why Robert and I never saw much of each other. We were
affectionate enough when we met, but living apart, we were not really
intimate. I was surprised when he came East, and we renewed our family
relations. Then——”

“Then he fell in love with Phyllis”—Zizi interrupted. “And it wasn’t
reciprocated.”

“Quite true,” Phyllis said, calmly.

“Yes,” Millicent agreed, “it was really love at first sight. And as
Phyllis had any number of suitors, Robert tried to cut them out by
promises of such luxuries and dazzling prospects as his wealth could
offer. But Phyllis couldn’t seem to bring herself to say yes——”

“But she had, hadn’t she?” Zizi didn’t look at Phyllis. “Wasn’t the
dinner party to be an announcement?”

Millicent shrugged her shoulders.

“I don’t know,” she said: “ask her.”

Zizi turned. “How about it, Phyllis?”

“I don’t know, either,” Phyllis said, slowly. “I had half
promised—because—oh, why not tell? because Mr Gleason had promised
me a lot of money—which I very much needed—at once—if I would make
the announcement that night.”

“Go on, tell it all,” Pennington Wise put in; “you wanted that
money——”

“To pull me out of a desperate hole,” Louis burst forth. “I got in
bad—very bad—with some gamblers and some loan sharks—and Sis was
good enough to try to get me out of it. She—she didn’t have to marry
old Gleason—even if she did announce an engagement.”

“Hush, Buddy,” said Phyllis, looking at him reprovingly; “I never
thought of saying yes to him, and backing out afterward. I wouldn’t do
such a thing. But I planned to go there that afternoon and try once
more to persuade him to give me the money, without a definite promise
on my part. I hoped that for the sake of Louis’ good name I could
persuade him. But—I didn’t go.”

“Never mind all that,” Zizi said, impatiently, “it won’t get us
anywhere to mull over that. Now, Penny Wise, here’s where I stand. All
people here present are innocent of this crime. Philip Barry—I
think—is also innocent. I’ve no reason to suspect a stranger—an
acquaintance of Mr Gleason’s—and I think if there were such an
individual, there must have been some trace of him. People don’t glide
in and out of a situation like shadows.”

“Go slow, Ziz,” cautioned the detective, looking at her thoughtfully.
“Keep your imagination in leash.”

“Yes, sir,” and she bowed with mock docility. “Now, if you’ll excuse
me, I have to go to Coggs’ Hollow.”

“To-night!” gasped Millicent, as Zizi rose, and began pulling on her
gloves.

“Yes; there’s a train at midnight, I can easily catch it. Good-by,
all.”

She drew her cloak together and fastened it, and held out her hand to
Wise with a demanding gesture.

Understandingly, he took out his pocketbook, and gave it to her
without a word.

She tucked it into her roomy handbag, and turned to the door.

“I’ll go with you,” Louis cried, already in the hall, and getting into
his overcoat.

“To the station? Thank you,” Zizi smiled.

“No; all the way. To New Hampshire.”

“Nixy!” she laughed, flashing her white teeth. “He travels the fastest
who travels alone. But I’ll be glad to have you entrain me.”

The two went out together, and hailing a taxicab, Louis delightedly
put Zizi in.

“Anyway, I’ll have you to myself for an hour,” he exulted. “What are
you, I can’t make you out. A sprite, a witch, an elf?”

“Oh, yes, all those things, and a girl beside. And you needn’t fall in
love with me—it would be a foolishness.”

“But I’ve already fallen.”

“Oh, well, all right. It doesn’t matter.” Zizi was absorbed in
thought, and seemed really to care nothing at all for Louis’ state of
mind.

Meantime, Millicent was demanding of Pennington Wise an explanation of
the astonishing Zizi.

“Don’t worry about her,” he said, smiling. “Don’t think about her.
She never does a wrong thing—in detective work, I mean. She will some
day—I daresay—and it may be she has now. But she acts on impulse, on
intuition, on what some people call a hunch. And I’ve never known her
to slip up. She is a wonder—but don’t try to understand her—for you
can’t.”

“But will she go to New Hampshire—all alone by herself? At night!”

“Oh, yes, and she’ll take care of herself.”

“Louis will go with her,” Phyllis said, “I know he will.”

“No, Miss Lindsay, you’re mistaken there. Zizi won’t let your brother
accompany her.”

“I’m sure it would be all right,” Millicent observed; “at work on a
case, you know.”

“Right enough, but Zizi won’t let him go because she doesn’t want him
to. Now, as to Mr Gleason’s will. Did you two ladies know about its
terms?”

“We weren’t certain,” Millicent said, “for my brother changed it quite
often. He was ready to settle a large amount on Phyllis at once if she
would consent to marry him, but he had already made a will leaving his
fortune equally divided between us two. He never liked Louis, rather,
he disapproved of him. Of late, Louis has run wild——”

“It isn’t his fault,” Phyllis defended; “he has been duped and deluded
by a lot of men with whom he had no business to associate at all. But
let’s leave Louis out of it, for Mr Wise has declared he doesn’t
suspect him, and he is in no other way concerned in this business.”

“That’s true, Miss Lindsay. Now, tell me, did Mr Gleason contemplate
changing his will again in case Miss Lindsay refused him definitely?”

“Yes, he did,” Phyllis stated; “he told me unless I made the
announcement at the dinner party, he would change his will and cut me
out of it entirely.”

“Did he, then, assume that you could be bought in that fashion.”

Phyllis colored, but she replied, “Yes, he did. But, mostly because he
knew how desperately I wanted money for my brother. And, too, it isn’t
a gracious thing to say—but Mr Gleason was not such an attractive man
that he had much reason for being accepted outside of his wealth.”

“I see; and he had made the existing will recently?”

“Within a month or so.”

“Who knew of it?”

“No one, I believe,” Millicent said, “but Phyllis and Louis and
myself—except, of course, the lawyer who drew it.”

“Mr Fred Lane?”

“Yes.”

“Wasn’t he one of that group of men who were discussing murder at the
Club that day?”

“Yes,” Millicent looked inquiringly at him; “but you don’t dream that
Mr Lane——”

“Why not?”

“Oh, nonsense, Fred Lane and my brother were good friends.”

“At any rate, it is to the men of that group that I shall first direct
my investigations. Few of them really liked Mr Gleason. Forgive me, if
I seem unkind, Mrs Lindsay, but I cannot work if trammeled by too
great consideration for your feelings.”

“Don’t stop for that, Mr Wise. I quite understand. And I know my
brother was not a favorite with the Club men. He was too different. He
was out of the picture. They had little in common. Now, in so far as
that is of assistance to you in forming your theories, use it, for it
is quite true. My brother was a far better and worthier man than most
of them, but his ways were different and he did not show to advantage
when among them. If Phyllis could have cared for Robert he could have
made her very happy, I know. But that’s all past. What I want now, is
to avenge my brother’s death. To discover and punish his murderer, no
matter who he may be. I beg of you, Mr Wise, spare no time, pains or
expense to ferret him out.”

“Indeed I shall not. Can you think of any grievance or reason for
enmity toward Mr Gleason on the part of those men I refer to?”

“Only one reason, Mr Wise, and that applies to several. They were
jealous of his attentions to Miss Lindsay.”

“Oh, Millicent!” Phyllis cried, in protest.

“It is true. Miss Lindsay is a belle, and all the men of that group
were her admirers—or almost all. Doctor Davenport, is, of course,
excepted, and Mr Lane. They are married men.”

“Leaving Mr Barry, Mr Pollard and Mr Monroe.”

“Yes; and they surely cannot be suspected. You have declared Mr Barry
innocent, Mr Pollard was in his own home at the time of the crime, and
Dean Monroe—why, he hasn’t even been thought of.”

“Has he been inquired of as to his whereabouts at the time?”

“I don’t know, I’m sure. Has he, Phyllis?”

“I don’t know. But it’s silly to think of Dean! Why, he scarcely knew
Mr Gleason.”

“But he is devoted to you?” Wise asked the question so casually that
Phyllis answered, frankly, “Yes, he is. That is, he has asked me to
marry him.”

“And you refused?”

“I did. But, Mr Wise, is it necessary to tell you such things?”

“It is, Miss Lindsay. I fully believe that you are the innocent cause
of this murder. This attaches no blame to you, in any way, but it
makes it imperative for me to learn these details. Probably nine
crimes out of ten are committed because of a woman—so don’t let it
disturb you.”

“Not disturb me!” Phyllis cried; “of course it disturbs me! If there
are women so foolishly vain as to enjoy stirring up strife among their
admirers, I am not of that sort. I wish I were dead!”

“There, now, Phyllis,” Millicent said, “don’t act like that. I, too,
believe the murderer was somebody who was jealous of Robert because of
you, but you can’t help that. I’m sure my brother had no enemy who
would come from the West to kill him.”

“You can’t be sure of such a thing as that, but we can prove up where
the people were who might be suspected here.”

Methodically Wise went about the job.

Although he had told the Lindsays he was sure of Philip Barry’s
innocence, none the less did he look into his alibi.

And it seemed to be all right. The doorman and the desk clerk at the
small hotel where he lived were almost certain that he had came in
that afternoon, just about six, as he said he did. They were not
willing to swear to it, but they were reasonably certain, and Wise
felt pretty sure they were right.

Next he went to the nearby hotel where Pollard lived.

“Yes, sir,” declared the doorman there, “I saw Mr Pollard come in—he
nodded to me just like he always does. And later, I saw him when he
went out again. I put him into his taxi myself.”

“At what time, about?”

“No about about it. It was just twenty-five minutes to seven——”

“How do you know?”

“I’ll tell you how I know. Mr Pollard glanced at his wrist watch as he
got into the cab. It had a radium dial, and I saw it plain.”

“Mr Pollard wears a wrist watch, then?”

“Yes, he’s worn it ever since the war. Got used to it over there, I
s’pose. Well, anyway, that’s what happened, so—if the watch was
correct—it was seven-twenty-five.”

“Good,” said Wise. “And, as I understand it, one or two people saw Mr
Pollard in his room, or heard him telephone during the hour or so he
was here?”

“Yes, sir,” the desk clerk rehearsed the story a little wearily. The
employees of the hotel had told the tale often, for owing to Manning
Pollard’s threat—which had passed into history—he was frequently
being suspected by somebody, detective or amateur, and the hotel
people had been called upon to rehearse the story until they were
letter perfect in their parts.

Next, Pennington Wise investigated the doings of Dean Monroe.

And the result was that he learned that Monroe had gone from the Club
that day straight to the home of his mother, and had remained with her
until so late that he had to make great haste dressing for dinner in
order to reach the Lindsay house on time.

“H’m,” said Penny Wise, profoundly, to himself; “h’m.”

Three days later, Zizi returned. She went to Wise’s apartment before
going to the Lindsay house.

“Find out much?” he asked her, as she flung off her wraps, and
deposited her small person in a very large easy chair.

“I sure did! But I’m glad to get back! New England is no paradise in
winter. Get me something to eat, there’s a bright Penny.”

“All right,” and Wise rang a bell. “Take your time, Ziz, but have a
little pity on a mere man, consumed with curiosity.”

“I will. Coggs’ Hollow is exactly what its name sounds like. A tiny,
primitive village, just the same now as it was a quarter of a century
ago, when Robert Gleason lived there, with his uncle.”

“You found people who knew him, then?”

“I did.”

“Could they throw any light on the murder—or its cause?”

“Not light—but a sort of a glimmer of a glow of a hint of dawn.”

“Good! That’s enough. You succeeded, then!”

“Oh, yes; and, Penny Wise, whom do you suppose I saw up there, also
nosing about?”

“Who?”

“Mr Manning Pollard.”

“Ziz, you’re crazy. He wasn’t there. I’ve seen him myself every day
you’ve been gone.”

“Seen him! Seen Manning Pollard? Penny, _you’re_ crazy!”




CHAPTER XVIII

The Luminous Face


“No, Zizi, my child, I’m not crazy. And, as a matter of fact, I suppose
you’re not, either. Now, what do you mean by thinking you saw Pollard
in New Hampshire when I know he was here in New York?”

“First, you tell me what you mean by thinking he was here in New York
when I saw him in Coggs’ Hollow?”

“Saw him? and talked with him?”

“No; I didn’t see him to speak to—but I saw him.”

“Where was he?”

“Walking along the street.”

“Did he see you?”

“Yes.”

“Did he speak to you, or bow?”

“Oh, no; he doesn’t know me!”

“How do you know him?”

“I don’t. But I’ve seen his picture—both in the paper and at Miss
Lindsay’s, and, as you know yourself, he’s unmistakable. Nobody could
take any one else for Manning Pollard! Why, that face is of a type not
often seen. And his physique, and his big, square shoulders—why,
Penny, I know it was he.”

“Well, Ziz, I don’t say it wasn’t, but we must puzzle out how he got
up there and why he went.”

“What have you done here while I was away?”

“I’ve found out all about the Barry letter for one thing.”

“Tell me.”

“A cleverly contrived thing. It was originally written in vanishing
ink and Barry signed it in real ink. Then, when the vanishing ink
vanished, the perpetrator of the precious scheme filled in the typed
letter above the signature.”

“Clever! What was the original document?”

“It was a testimonial or something of the sort to a Club servant. Head
Steward, or somebody, and this testimonial was arranged for him. Barry
remembers being asked to sign and remembers signing. Then he forgot
all about it.”

“Weren’t others to sign?”

“Barry thought so, but the matter was never carried on.”

“H’m. Who asked Barry to sign?”

“Dean Monroe.”

“How he continues to crop up! Is he the murderer?”

“Now, look here, Zizi, we’re up against an enormously interesting
case. It’s simple up to a certain point, and then it’s inexplicable.
The murderer is one of the cleverest men on this planet. For, look. He
arranged that letter deliberately, fixed up the Club servant scheme,
to get Philip Barry’s signature on a blank sheet of paper. Having
that, he later wrote in whatever he chose. His cleverness consisted,
at this point, in not overdoing. Had he made the letter a threat of
murder, it would have looked false on the face of it, for Barry is not
like that. Well, he had this letter ready to plant in Gleason’s desk
after he had committed his crime—and he did so. Next, he left no
fingerprints on the telephone or on the revolver, save those of
Gleason himself. Was that clever?”

“Oh, Penny, it was! And he made the prints on the telephone with Mr
Gleason’s fingers after Mr Gleason was dead! And he did the
telephoning himself!”

“Yes; how quick you are, Zizi! That’s exactly what happened, because
that’s the only way it could have been. Now, a man clever enough for
all that is clever enough for anything. Yet I can’t see how he did it.
Nor do I grasp his motive.”

“Jealous of Phyllis?”

“That isn’t enough to account for the crime.”

“No, it isn’t! He had another motive, and I’ve found it out. I found
out up in Coggs’ Hollow.”

“Going to tell me?”

“You bet I am! Right away. How did you guess the man?”

“I didn’t guess. I deduced from his alibi. Such a clever villain—what
would he naturally choose by way of alibi?”

“Just what he did do. Pretend not to have any—but when they
investigate, they find he has a cast-iron one!”

“Exactly, and Manning Pollard’s was all that. But I can’t see how he
managed it.”

“There’s only one way. He must have had a confederate who did the
killing.”

“No; a clever criminal doesn’t have a confederate. No; Pollard killed
Gleason himself. By the way, Zizi, I found Pollard’s fingerprints on
the Barry letter.”

“But Dean Monroe did that.”

“Dean Monroe asked Barry to sign it, but—he told me himself—Pollard
gave him the paper and asked him to get Barry’s signature. This,
Monroe did, and gave the paper back to Pollard. Later, Pollard told
Monroe the plan had been given up. I dug that all out, without
speaking to Barry about it. I don’t want Pollard to imagine we suspect
him. Now, my child, what was his motive?”

“A pretty strong one. It seems that Manning Pollard is an illegitimate
child. He was born in Coggs’ Hollow, of unmarried parents. Later, his
father and mother married, so he was legally legitimized. But of
course, a stigma remains. Now, Mr Pollard is several years younger
than Robert Gleason, so the assumption is that Robert Gleason, who
lived all his boyhood in Coggs’ Hollow, knew this secret of Pollard’s
birth, and had threatened to expose him, unless he desisted from
trying to win Phyllis away from Gleason.”

Pennington Wise thought a few moments.

“That’s it,” he said, at last; “that’s it, Zizi. You’re a wonderful
child for sure! How did you get it?”

“I went straight to the town clerk, and he not only showed me his
books, but he told me the story. He knows nothing of the Gleason
murder, and I didn’t tell him. Up in that little dot of a village they
don’t know the news of New York.”

“But they must know of Gleason’s death. He was a foremost citizen,
wasn’t he?”

“Of Seattle, yes. But when he left Coggs’ Hollow he was a young man of
twenty-five or so, and I suppose they’ve forgotten all about him.
Anyway, the town clerk didn’t remember him very clearly, but he
remembered all about the Pollard family. Of course, it was a
celebrated case up there.

“The fact of the couple’s marriage, five or six years after Manning
Pollard’s birth, was a sensational affair, and though nobody could
blame Mr Pollard, the fact remains that he was really an illegitimate
child.”

“And, knowing this, Gleason probably was quite ready to tell it, and
so——”

“And so, Pollard made it impossible for him to tell. Now, Penny Wise,
that’s a fine theory, a noble deduction—but, how did Pollard commit
that murder when he was at home in his hotel? Like you, I can’t see
him employing a gunman. Rather, I see him going there to plead with
Gleason to spare him. Then, when Gleason refused, in the heat of
passion, Pollard shot him.”

“But the carefully prepared letter from Barry proves premeditation.”

“That’s so. And, remember his threat to kill Gleason. Would he have
said that, if he had really intended to kill him?”

“I think so. I’ve thought all along, that Pollard’s bravado was his
hope of escape. He would argue that a man who made such a threat would
not be suspected. And, quite as he calculated, everybody said, ‘oh, if
he had meant to kill Gleason, he never would have advertised his
intention.’ That was a bold stroke, but an efficacious one. Yet, we
can’t be right, Zizi, for he was at home. I’ve been to the hotel
again. I’ve tabulated all his movements. He did go home at six, he did
go out again at seven-twenty-five, and during that time he was in his
room, because he telephoned twice, and he talked to the bellboy. And
these three circumstances were at intervals of twenty minutes or so,
therefore, he couldn’t have been down in Washington Square at all.
After he got into his taxi, the driver accounts for his every movement
until he reached the Lindsay house at dinner time. So, there’s his
alibi.”

“Perfect.”

“Yes, that’s the trouble——”

“Now, don’t say, ‘distrust the perfect alibi,’ Penny, for that’s a
platitude and a silly one, too. Your innocent man has a perfect alibi.
He may or may not remember it, but it’s perfect all the same. Now,
this alibi of Pollard’s is, to all appearances, the alibi of an
innocent man. He has that secret of his past, Gleason did know it,
that makes a motive. He did, as you say, fix up the Barry
letter—though that may not be quite true——”

“What do you mean by that, Ziz?”

“I mean perhaps somebody else worked the vanishing ink, and all
that——”

“But who would want to?”

“The murderer—if it turns out to be not Pollard. Look here, Penny,
Pollard is either innocent or guilty. If guilty, all your deductions
are correct, but if innocent they must be transferred to some one
else.”

“Surely. But to whom?”

“Dunno yet. Me, I think it is Pollard—but how, _how_, how did he
manage it?”

“Only by a confederate who did the deed.”

“Which is not the solution! I don’t know how I know it, but I know
that didn’t happen. Why, a villain might get a gunman to shoot
somebody, but not to put up all that elaboration. The fingerprints,
the telephoning stunt—all that was the work of an artist in crime,
the cleverest criminal in the world, as you’ve admitted. Not a
hireling.”

“A hireling might be clever.”

“Not in that way. No, a wizard like that is not anybody’s hireling.
He’s in business for himself.”

“Have it your own way. And I think you’re right. Well, then, how did
Pollard get down there? Aeroplane?”

“No; there’s a simple explanation, only we haven’t got it yet.
Incidentally, how did he get up to New Hampshire and back without
being missed here in New York. Aeroplane?”

“He couldn’t have done it at all. You’re mistaken about seeing him
there.”

“Maybe.” Zizi knitted her pretty brows. “What time did he leave the
hotel in that taxi to go to Phyllis’ dinner?”

“Seven twenty-five. He had two errands on the way. He stopped——”

“I know. For theater tickets and for flowers. How do they know so
positively the exact time he left?”

“That’s a coincidence. The doorman happened to catch sight of
Pollard’s wrist watch as he got into the cab. It has a luminous
face—I’ve seen him wear it—and the doorman noticed it was just
twenty-five minutes after seven.”

“What! Oh, oh, Penny! That explains it all! Oh, me, oh, my! To think
of the simple solution! Oh, what a tangled web we weave, when first we
practise to deceive! Oh, gracious goodness sakes! Be sure your sin
will find you out!”

“For heaven’s sake, Zizi, don’t act like a wild woman! When you begin
to quote things I know you’re luny! Sit down and tell me what you’re
talking about!”

“Is this a dagger that I see before me? Oh, what a noble mind was here
o’erthrown!”

“Don’t get your Shakespeare mixed up. That first quotation is from
Macbeth, but the other is from Hamlet. You look more like one of the
witches!”

“Oh, I am! I am! Double, double, toil and trouble!”

“Zizi, behave! Stop your foolishness!”

The girl was dancing up and down the room like a veritable witch-elf.
She flung her long, thin arms about, and was really excited, her brain
teeming with the sudden revelation that had come to her.

“Do you remember the Macbeth witches?” she demanded, pausing before
him, poised on one foot, and looking like a Sibyl herself.

“Of course I do! Double, double, toil and trouble; fire burn and
cauldron bubble!”

“That’s it—that’s the answer! Oh, Penny Wise, it’s as plain as
day—as Day! I see it all—all—_all_!”

“Might I inquire what enlightened you?”

“The radium watch! The luminous face! Oh, I’m onto the watch! I’m on
the watch!”

“Zizi, you are crazy. I refuse to talk to you as long as you act so
foolishly. Will you be quiet and tell me things?”

“Penny, I’m so excited. Yes, I’ll tell you, after I prove my case to
myself. I’ve got to go to the hotel—to Pollard’s hotel—and see about
something.”

And in a moment she was gone, and in the shortest possible time she
was at the hotel.

“Again?” groaned the telephone girl, as Zizi earnestly began to
whisper her questions.

“Yes, again—and yet.” Zizi said: “Now, listen, and tell me this. What
did Mr Pollard say when he called his cab that night?”

“Why, that’s a funny thing. Why do you ask that? He said ‘Will you
call me a cab, please.’”

“Why was that funny?”

“Because he always says, ‘Call me a taxi.’ I remember, because I’m
afraid some time I’ll say, ‘You’re a taxi!’”

“Funny girl! Well, I’m trying to prove that Mr Pollard was not himself
that night!”

“Oh—Mr Pollard never drinks anything.”

“How do you know?”

“I just happen to know. You’re wrong, he was perfectly sober.”

“Then why did he telephone to the cleaner’s when he knew it was past
their closing time?”

“I suppose he didn’t think of that.”

“Not like Manning Pollard’s way. One more thing. Isn’t Mr Pollard a
careful dresser?”

“Is he! The finest ever. He’s so particular, he’s an old fuss.”

“You know a lot about him, don’t you?”

“I can’t help it. A telephone operator gets side-lights on people who
are continually discussing their affairs over her lines. I don’t have
to listen in, but I can’t help knowing how often Mr Pollard telephones
to cleaners and tailors and haberdashers and all that. Can I?”

“No, honey, of course you can’t. Good-by.”

And as Zizi left the hotel she met Manning Pollard coming in. He
looked at her curiously, for though they had never met, Phyllis had
told him of the queer girl, and he felt sure this was she.

To confirm it he went directly to the telephone girl and inquired of
her, and the obliging young woman repeated to him the whole of her
conversation with Zizi.

“H’m,” Pollard observed to himself, “h’m—exactly so.”

And he turned on his heel and went out again.

Absorbed in his thoughts, he paid no attention to a slim little figure
that slipped out from a protecting doorway and followed him. Nor did
he notice that the determined little person kept on following him as
he boarded a Fifth Avenue Bus and went southward.

Zizi, who could make herself as inconspicuous as a schoolgirl when she
chose, sat in the rear seat, looking out of the window.

Pollard got out at the Washington Square terminus, and walked briskly
westward. This was away from the Gleason apartments, though Zizi had
not expected him to go there.

She followed, unnoticed, until Pollard entered what seemed to be a
second-rate boarding house.

Nodding her head contentedly, Zizi waited until her quarry again made
an appearance.

Then as the man went over and took a North-bound Bus, Zizi found a
taxicab and gave the order to fly back to Penny Wise.

It was after fifteen or twenty minutes of the excited girl’s
conversation and explanations that Wise was in possession of all the
facts.

“Can we get him?” he asked, and then the telephone rang.

“Hello,” said Wise, and received this astonishing response.

“Manning Pollard speaking. You have been too many for me, Mr Wise. I
give myself up. I don’t know how you discovered so much, but I see
there’s no use in further effort to hide my crime. I confess, and you
may come and take me. I am in my rooms at the hotel.”

“You are a bit astonishing, Mr Pollard,” Wise said. “But I accept your
invitation and I will go at once to you. Will you stay there till I
come.”

“Certainly. When I perceive the game is up, what else is there for me
to do? Moreover, would I call you up and surrender, if I were not
sincere about it?”

“I can’t see why you should. At your hotel, then? All right.”

“Heavens, Zizi, what a man! I’ll start right off. You call Prescott,
and tell him just what Pollard said, and tell him to go to the hotel
with two policemen—or enough to take the prisoner.”

Wise went and Zizi did as he had bade her.

“What?” Prescott cried, over the wire, “you don’t say so! Well,
wonders will never cease! I don’t altogether believe in it, but I’ll
hurry to the hotel.”

Then Zizi herself hurried to the hotel, more excited than ever.

She calmed herself a little on the way, for she knew she must be cool
and collected to take her part in the scene.

She reached the hotel a moment or two before Prescott got there.

But he came, as she waited, and, seeing her, exclaimed, “Are you sure?
Where’s Mr Wise?”

“He isn’t here,” she said, a little unnecessarily. “I’ll go up with
you.”

“Come if you like,” said Prescott, carelessly, and with his two husky
companions he entered the elevator.

At Pollard’s door the group paused, and Prescott knocked.

“Come in,” they heard, and went in.

The man sitting in an easy chair sprang up.

“What the devil!” he cried.

“Easy now, Mr Pollard,” Prescott said, “you told us to come and get
you, and we’re here.”

“Told you—come and get me—— Get out, I say!”

Prescott stared. Was this Manning Pollard? Talking so unlike himself!
Clearly, it was not!

“Who are you?” Prescott said, curiously; and then, illogically, “Mr
Pollard, who are you?”

“I’m not Manning Pollard. If you’ve come to arrest him, you’ve got the
wrong man.” But though blustering, the speaker was white with fear.
Overcome with surprise and terror, he fell back into his chair and
began to swear fluently.

“None of that, now,” said Prescott, dumfounded, but vigilant. “If
you’re not Manning Pollard you’re his twin brother! Is that it?”

“No—oh, no.”

“Well, then, who are you?”

“I’m—oh, hang it all—I’m Horace Taylor.”

“And just what are you doing in Pollard’s rooms? And why do you look
so much like him? You’re his very double!”

“Double, double, toil and trouble!” Zizi chanted softly, to herself,
but no one noticed her.

“I am,” said Taylor, bitterly, “and he has betrayed me. I’ll make a
clean breast of it. I’ve done nothing wrong—and I didn’t know he was
going to. I’m—well I’m his half-brother.”

“You’re the exact image of him in form and feature, but your manner is
utterly different.”

“Yes, because he has had education and culture—and I’ve had none.”

“Well, out with your story.”

“Manning Pollard is the son of the man who was also my father. We are
exactly alike, though I’m a couple of years older.”

“Are you a legitimate son?”

“I am not—but neither is Manning, though he was legally made so, by
his parents’ marriage some years after he was born.”

“You know all that?” cried Zizi. “You were up in Coggs’ Hollow day
before yesterday.”

“Yes, miss. I saw you there, at the clerk’s office. I knew then there
was trouble brewing for Manning.”

“Double, double, toil and trouble——”

“Yes, miss, exactly that! Manning hired me to personate him here in
his rooms the night of—well, you know that night, Mr Prescott.
He—oh, thunder! shall I tell it all?”

“Yes, tell it all,” Prescott was breathless with curiosity and
interest.

“Well, he paid me heaps to meet him at a certain spot.”

“Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street?”

“Yes, in the crowd. He had supplied me with clothes just like his own,
and given me full instructions.”

“What were the instructions?” Prescott demanded.

“I was to meet him there, at about six, and I was to assume his
identity for a time. I was to come here, come up to his rooms, here,
dress for dinner, take a taxi and go away at exactly twenty-five past
seven. While here I was to telephone once or twice, also to call a
bellhop and see him.”

“What a plot!” exclaimed Prescott, “oh, _what_ a plot!”

“I did all this, and then, later, when I went into the Astor for the
theater tickets, Manning met me there, and in the crowd, we changed
identities again, he got into the cab I had got out of, and he went on
to the dinner and I went home.”

“You knew what his object in all this was?”

“I did not! Before God I never would have consented if I had. He told
me it was to play a joke on some of his friends, and the price he
offered was so great I consented.”

“And you telephoned to the cleaner’s and all that?”

“Yes; and called the bellboy to take the letter—which Manning had
prepared. Then afterward, when I read the papers I felt sure that
Manning had killed Robert Gleason. I never taxed him with it, for it
was none of my business and if it was true I didn’t want to know it.”

“This explains Mr Barry seeing Pollard over in Brooklyn—it was you, I
suppose.”

“I suppose so. What are you going to do with me?”

“Hold you for the present, but if your story is true, you’re merely a
dupe. How come you here now?”

“Manning came down to my place about an hour ago, and said for me to
come right up here and personate him again for an hour or so, and then
he said he’d never trouble me again.”

“You came willingly?”

“Oh, the poor chap was so upset, seemed in danger, and said I could
save his life by doing this.”

“You have. Of course he’s miles away by now. What a mess—oh,
_what_ a mess!”

Prescott was disgusted. First that such a gigantic hoax had been put
over on him, and second that he had utterly lost all chance to catch
the perpetrator thereof.

“You put it over neatly enough,” Prescott growled, looking at the man,
Taylor.

“Yes, but I nearly muffed it. While I was dressing here that night,
some guy called up to know Robert Gleason’s address. I hadn’t a
notion, but I chanced to see a little address book on the desk, and I
soon found it.”

“Yes, that was the butler of Davenport’s patient,” Prescott
remembered. “Well, it was one great game. And we’ve lost our man!”

And then Pennington Wise came.

“Taylor?” he said, looking curiously at the double. “Well, you
_are_ an exact duplicate!”

“What do you know about this?” cried Prescott, “Where’s Pollard?”

“Dead,” replied Wise, gravely. “I’ve just left your place, Taylor, and
your precious half-brother shot himself there fifteen minutes ago.”

“Spill it,” commanded Prescott.

“I knew when I got the message from Pollard that the dupe would be
here so I sent you, Prescott, while I went down to Taylor’s home. As I
expected, Pollard was there. He made a full confession, seeing the
game was up, and then eluding my watchfulness, he shot himself. I
called the police in and I came up here to tell you.”

“I can’t get over it,” said Prescott, his eyes wide with wonder. “What
a scheme!”

“Simple in the main,” said Wise, “but elaborate as to details. He left
nothing unprovided for. He foresaw every condition and met it. The
only thing, and the thing that proved his undoing was his forgetting
that Mr Taylor had not enjoyed the same social advantages that he
himself had.”

“What do you mean?” growled Taylor.

“He had evening clothes ready for you here. He planned for every item
of your conduct, but he couldn’t know that you would wear a wrist
watch with evening dress! That little incident caught the attention of
Zizi, and from that she instantly deduced that the man that got into
that taxi with a wrist watch on in the evening, could not have been
Manning Pollard himself! Moreover, he drew the attention of the
doorman to the time on its illuminated dial, and so, the luminous face
fixed the time, but Pollard would have had on no wrist watch.”

“That’s so,” agreed Prescott, “Pollard’s a perfect dresser, I happen
to know.”

“He confessed it all,” went on Wise. “He was game, I’ll say, and he
told me frankly that Gleason had threatened to tell of his shameful
birth. He was very sensitive about the matter. Gleason told him he
would disclose the secret unless Pollard ceased his attentions to Miss
Lindsay. Also, Pollard knew, from Lane, of Gleason’s will. Therefore,
rid of Gleason, Pollard figured he could win Miss Lindsay and the
fortune. So he set about to get rid of Gleason—and did. His threat
that day was, of course, with the idea that such a remark would tend
to divert suspicion from him—which it did. His alibi, so perfectly
prepared, he scorned to declare, knowing that when it was learned by
inquiry it would be satisfactory, which it was. That’s all, except to
credit my assistant, Zizi, with the acumen which found out the truth.
Her suspicion of a double was roused by the wrist watch episode. She
came over here, and learned that the exact doings of the man here that
fatal evening were not precisely in Pollard’s usual manner. She
watched Pollard come in and go out again. She followed him, and when
he went into a house, she felt sure it was the home of his double. It
was! She saw a man come out, and though it was like Pollard, her newly
attentive eyes showed her it was not really he. Off guard, Taylor has
many dissimilarities from his brother. She flew back to me with the
story, not knowing how soon the denouncements was to come. And then,
when Pollard telephoned he would give himself up, I knew at once he
meant to have Taylor here in his place. So I went to Taylor’s place,
and a more surprised man than Manning Pollard I never saw!”

“As my reward,” Zizi said quietly, “I want to be allowed to go and
tell Phyllis Lindsay the truth. I love her so, and I don’t want her
shocked at hearing about it from a lot of policemen.”

There was no objection on the part of anybody, and Zizi went on her
errand.

An hour later, when all three of the Lindsays had been told, and had
indeed been shocked and horrified, Philip Barry came in.

“Phyllis,” he said, scarcely seeing any one else.

Phyllis rose and went straight to him. He held out his arms, and she
clung to him as they closed round her.

“I never doubted you for a minute, Phil,” she said, “but that man had
a sort of power over me—a—oh, almost an hypnotic power, I think.”

“Forget him,” Zizi advised, smiling at the pair.

“Now, you two talk over things, while I go in the library and flirt
with Louis, with Mrs Lindsay for chaperon. Forget everybody else, and
think there are only you two in the whole wide world.”

THE END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Luminous Face, by Carolyn Wells

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LUMINOUS FACE ***

***** This file should be named 42714-0.txt or 42714-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/2/7/1/42714/

Produced by Roger Frank and Sue Clark

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
